IT IS SIX ON TWO AND
I'M GOING TO CALL TO ORDER THE
JANUARY 20TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
I WANT TO WELCOME EVERYONE AND
I'M GOING TO ASK THIS COMMENT
TO GIVE US A ROLL CALL RIGHT
BEFORE SHE EVEN DOES THAT TO
REMIND ME TO REMIND EVERYBODY
THE MIKES ARE ON SO VERY GOOD.
THANK FISCHER CARTER HERE,
CHAIR CARTER HERE, VICE CHAIR
ORPHANING PRISON COMMISSIONER
MILGROM HERE, COMMISSIONER
GREEN PRESENT COMMISSIONER
FRANCIS HERE AS COMMISSIONER
MAINLY PRESENT COMMISSIONER
COOPER PRESENT COMMISSIONER
BILLUPS COMMISSIONER LEW
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS CITY
COUNCIL HERE SIN CITY COUNCIL
JANAYA.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
NOW I'M GOING TO ASK
COMMISSIONERS IF YOU WOULD
PLEASE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
AGENDA AND TAKE A LOOK AT THE
MINUTES FROM OUR LAST MEETING
AND IF YOU'VE HAD A CHANCE TO
DO THAT, WHICH YOU PROBABLY
HAVE, I'M GOING TO ASK A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA FOR THIS
EVENING'S MEETING.
CAN WE HAVE MOTION MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA FOR OUR
JANUARY MEETING?
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND IT'S
BEEN MOVED AND SECONDED TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
ANY OPPOSED.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AND NOW I'D LIKE TO ASK FOR
A MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
THE MINUTES OF OUR LAST MEETING
MOTION TO APPROVE THIS SECOND
CIRCUIT ALL IN FAVOR OF ANY
OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO THE AGENDA AND MINUTES HAVE
BEEN APPROVED NOW IT IS TIME
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AND I'D LIKE
TO STATE THAT ANY ONE WHO LIKES
TO COME BY WHO WOULD LIKE TO
COME BEFORE THE COMMISSION WITH
COMPLAINT OR TELL US WE'RE
DOING SOMETHING RIGHT OR
WHATEVER YOU'D LIKE TO SAY THIS
IS THE TIME TO DO IT TO ANY
PUBLIC COMMENT ANYONE WISHES TO
MAKE A STATEMENT OR COMMENT
THIS EVENING SOMEBODY WE
HAVEN'T WE HAVE NO ONE ON THE
LINE.
>> VERY GOOD.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE RIGHT ON.
>> SO FIRST THING WE WANT TO DO
IS INTRODUCE OUR NEW
COMMISSIONERS.
>> WE ARE JUST SO HAPPY TO HAVE
YOU BOTH WELCOME TO THE
COMMISSION AND I'M GOING TO ASK
YOU JUST STARTING WITH
COMMISSIONER MANLEY, JUST GIVE
US A BRIEF INTRO ADDUCTION SO
WE CAN GET FAMILIAR WITH YOU.
OK, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
I'M NOT SURE YOU CAN PUT THE
MIC DOWN NOW.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
MY NAME IS PATRICIA MANLEY AND
I AM ON THAT AND ON THE RIGHT I
WAS BORN AND RAISED IN ANN
ARBOR.
I ATTENDED JONES ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL I MEAN YEAH JONES
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
TAPAN JUNIOR 1007 MIDDLE SCHOOL
AND ANN ARBOR HIGH WHICH IS NOW
PIONEER.
SO THEY'VE ALL CHANGED NAMES
BUT THEY'RE STILL THE SAME I
GUESS I ATTENDED WESTERN
MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY AND
GRADUATED FROM THERE AND
STARTED TO TEACH.
>> I STARTED TEACHING HERE ON
HIGH SCHOOL AND WHILE HERE ON
HIGH SCHOOL FOR LIKE THIRTY ONE
YEARS I WAS A TEACHER AND THEN
I WAS A COUNSELOR AND THEN I
WAS AN ASSISTANT PRINCIPAL AND
THEN I LEFT HERE AND WENT TO
THURSTON ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
WHERE I WAS PRINCIPAL FOR TEN
YEARS.
SO I WAS IN THE DISTRICT FOR 41
YEARS AND THEN I TOOK A BREAK
AND THEN I RAN FOR SCHOOL BOARD
AND TWENTY FOUR FOURTEEN I
THINK IT WAS YEAH.
>> AND SO I WAS ON THE SCHOOL
BOARD FOR TWO YEARS.
>> I'M RETIRED NOW FROM
EVERYTHING EXCEPT A COMMISSION
THE COMMISSION.
I'M GLAD I HAVE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO BE MISSED AND I
HOPE THAT I CAN BE A GOOD
ADDITION.
>> WE ARE SO HAPPY TO HAVE YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER MANLEY.
>> THE COMMISSIONER COOPER
GETTING IN THE COMMISSIONER'S
INTO THE AUDIENCE CHIEF AND TWO
OFFICERS IN YOUR TEAM.
>> I JUST WANT TO THANK MY
FELLOW COMMISSIONERS THANK
CHAIR CARTER AND VICE CHAIR
OTHMAN FOR ALLOWING ME TO SERVE
ON THIS COMMISSION GREATLY
APPRECIATIVE OF FOR EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS AARON COOPER.
I'M AN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF AVALON HOUSING.
MY DEGREE IS IN CRIMINAL
JUSTICE FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF CINCINNATI.
UNFORTUNATELY I'M FROM OHIO.
I'M PLEASED TO HOLD THAT
AGAINST ME.
MY CAREER AS BACKGROUND HAS
BEEN IN WHAT'S KNOWN AS LOW
INCOME PUBLIC HOUSING.
>> SO I HAVE SIXTEEN YEARS
OF EXPERIENCE AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING PUBLIC HOUSING IN
DIFFERENT AVENUES, DIFFERENT
AREAS WITHIN THE MIDWEST.
I'M HERE NOW AGAIN AT AVALON
AND I'M VERY APPRECIATIVE TO BE
HERE AND BARBERTON WASHTENAW
COUNTY ONE INTERESTING I GUESS
FACT IS IN TWENTY SIXTEEN I
GRADUATED FROM THE POLICE
CITIZEN'S ACADEMY IN TOLEDO
WHICH WAS A REALLY REALLY GOOD
EXPERIENCE FOR ME TO EXPERIENCE
THAT AND UNDERSTAND, YOU KNOW,
POLICING FROM A FROM A
DIFFERENT STANDPOINT THAN THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE DEGREE.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
WELCOME.
AND WE ARE SO HAPPY TO HAVE
HERE AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO JUST TAKE SOME OUT
OF ORDER FOR A MINUTE AND I SEE
CHIEF ANDERSON IS HERE AND SOME
OF HIS TEAM ARE HERE.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO SAY ANYTHING
AT ALL AT THIS TIME OR YOU'RE
CERTAINLY WELCOME.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
GOOD TO HAVE YOU HERE.
>> OK, NEXT IS REPORT FROM THE
CHAIR.
>> I HAVE A FEW THINGS I AM
LOOKING FORWARD TO TO WORKING
WITH WITH EVERYONE WE YOU HAVE
A LOT TO DO THIS YEAR AND I
THINK WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS
ON OUR ON OUR AGENDA AND WE'LL
BE TALKING ABOUT THAT AS THE
COMMITTEES GIVE THEIR REPORTS.
BUT AS I'M TALKING ABOUT
COMMITTEES, I'D LIKE TO KNOW IF
EVERYONE WHO IS ALREADY ON A
COMMITTEE IS HAPPY WITH YOUR
COMMITTEE.
>> WHAT WE CAN DO A NEW
COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS FOR
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE I I'M HAPPY
WITH THE WAY THE COMMITTEE
COMMITTEES ARE FUNCTIONING AND
I'D LIKE THE NEW COMMISSIONERS
YOU KNOW WE DO WE NEED HELP ON
THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE.
YES.
YES WE DO.
IT'S JUST ME SO THAT'S A ONE
PERSON COMMITTEE SO FAR WE GOT
SOME HELP FOR POLICY BUT WE
HAVE THE POLICY COMMITTEE, WE
HAVE THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE, WE
HAVE THE TRAINING COMMITTEE.
WE HAVE THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS WITH VERY IMPORTANT
AND SO YOU DON'T HAVE THE NEW
COMMISSIONERS.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO LET US KNOW
NOW YOU CAN TALK ABOUT IT IF
YOU WANT.
COMMISSIONER FRANCIS IS THE
CHAIR OF THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE
AND YOU MIGHT HEAR IN HER
REPORT TODAY SHE'S GOT SOME
THINGS COMING UP.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE ON THE
TRAINING COMMITTEE?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE SOMEONE
ELSE ON THE TRAIN.
>> THE TRAINING COMMITTEE AND
HOPEFULLY WE'RE GOING TO GET
INTO SOME REVIEWAL OF THE
POLICE TRAINING THIS YEAR.
SO GOOD.
>> LET ME KNOW HOW SOON WE'LL
LET YOU KNOW.
>> YOU CAN LET ME KNOW NOW IF
YOU WANT.
WELL, I'M NOT SURE I WANT TO
SEE THEM.
I KNOW SOMETHING ABOUT A FEW
OF THEM.
>> NOT ALL OF THEM.
OK, WE CAN TALK.
WE CAN TALK AND YOU CAN DECIDE
OK, WHAT WE WANT TO LOOK AT
TODAY IS, YOU KNOW, WE'RE WE
ARE MANDATED TO PREPARE AND
SUBMIT AN ANNUAL REPORT.
>> I THINK THAT OUR ANNUAL
REPORT FOR TWENTY TWENTY THREE
WAS EXCELLENT AND I AGAIN THANK
MISS CUMMINS FOR PUTTING IT
TOGETHER ALSO KIMBERLY ONE MORE
MORTENSON WORKS AND I THINK IT
IS WHO WHO ACTUALLY LAYS IT OUT
FOR US.
>> SHE JUST DOES A WONDERFUL
JOB.
I'VE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH HER AND
SHE'S READY WHERE WE ARE SO
HOPEFULLY WE CAN HAVE THE
REPORT TOGETHER BY
MID-FEBRUARY, GET IT ALL
PRINTED UP WHAT YOU HAVE AND I
I RECEIVED I ASKED COMMISSIONER
FRANCIS FOR A PARAGRAPH ABOUT
WHAT THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE HAS
DONE.
I KNOW THAT COMMISSIONER
MILGRIM IS GETTING ME A
PARAGRAPH ABOUT THE POLICY
COMMITTEE.
I'M CONFIDENT THAT THE CHAIR
OF THE INFORMATION MANAGERS IS
GOING TO GET US SOMETHING FOR
HIS SECTION OF THE REPORT.
WHAT I WANT US TO LOOK AT I
THINK IN YOUR PACK YOU WILL SEE
RECOMMENDATIONS IF YOU RETURN
TO THAT PAGE PLEASE.
THESE ARE THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT WE MADE IN OUR REPORT FROM
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND I'D
KIND OF LIKE TO GO THROUGH THEM
BECAUSE I THINK WE SHOULD
REPORT OUT WHAT HAPPENED WITH
OUR RECOMMENDATIONS AND AND
WHETHER ANY OF THEM HAVE BEEN
IMPLEMENT.
SO THE FIRST RECOMMENDATION
THAT THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
POLICIES BE AMENDED TO MANDATE
THAT IN TRAFFIC STOPS OFFICER
HAVING APPROACHED A DRIVER
FIRST IDENTIFYING HIM OR
HERSELF AND INFORMED THE DRIVER
OF THE REASON FOR A STOP BEFORE
REQUESTING A LICENSE OR
REGISTRATION AND
WE LISTED A
RATIONALE FOR THAT.
>> NOW IT'S MINDER'S STANDING
IN CHIEF AGAIN.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO RESPOND BUT
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THE
DEPARTMENT IS AT LEAST WORKING
ON THIS.
NO, THAT'S WRONG.
I'M SORRY.
>> BETTER THAN WORKING.
OK, SO THAT IS ALREADY IS THERE
WHAT IS THAT POLICY?
WASN'T THERE A NAME YOU WERE
THINKING OF FOR THE DEPUTY ARE
DRIVING TO TRACK.
>> OK THANK YOU SO THAT POLICY
WE CAN REPORT OUT HAS BEEN
IMPLEMENTED.
>> THANK YOU SIR.
THE GENERAL TRAFFIC STOP I'M
SORRY GENERAL TRAFFIC STOP
GENERAL TRAFFIC STOP POLICY
THANK YOU
.
OK, NUMBER TWO IT IS
RECOMMENDED THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT POLICIES BE AMENDED
TO ENSURE THAT HATE GROUPS SUCH
AS NEO-NAZI AND ANTI-GOVERNMENT
EXTREMISTS ARE NOT PART OF THE
APD AND ARE NOT INVOLVED IN
SPREADING HATE SPEECH THROUGH
SOCIAL MEDIA AND OTHERWISE.
>> AND WE PRESENTED THE
RATIONALE FOR THAT.
>> I'VE SPOKEN TO COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON THIS AND OTHER FOLKS
IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THE THOUGHT
IS THAT THE CITY POLICIES ARE
BROAD ENOUGH SO THAT IF THERE
IS ANYTHING I THINK THE
LANGUAGE IS THAT BRINGS
DISREPUTE ON THE CITY OR ON THE
DEPARTMENT THAT THERE CAN BE
GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
POLICY COMMITTEE SPEAKING FOR
THE ENTIRE COMMITTEE I WAS JUST
I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY THAT I
THINK WE WE COVERED AS MANY AS
10 POLICIES THAT, YOU KNOW,
TOUCH ON THAT KIND OF SCENARIO.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT
SPECIFICALLY SPEAKS OF HATE
GROUPS AND NOT BEING ALLOWED TO
BE A MEMBER OF ONE OR TO SPEAK
THAT WAY PUBLIC MEDIA, YOU
KNOW, SOCIAL MEDIA OR
OTHERWISE.
BUT WE I THINK GENERALLY
SPEAKING IT'S COVERED SO CAN WE
RESPOND AND WE BELIEVE THAT
CURRENT CURRENT POLICIES ARE
ENOUGH TO COVER THIS.
>> I THINK IT'S AN IMPORTANT
IT'S AN IMPORTANT THING.
YOU KNOW, TIMES ARE CHANGING
AND WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
WORKING WITH AND WHO'S WORKING
FOR US.
>> SO I WILL I WILL SAY THAT WE
THINK IT'S WE CAN COVER THAT
ONE.
>> OK, THANK YOU AND PLEASE
JUMP IN ON YOUR POINT.
YES.
MR. GREEN, THIS IS A GOOD
POLICY.
MY ONLY QUESTION I WANT TO SEE
A TERMINOLOGY LIKE THIS IS WHAT
IS A HATE GROUP AND WHO DEFINES
WHAT A HATE GROUP IS AND IT
GETS KIND OF MURKY I THINK
UNLESS THEY WORK UNLESS WE HAVE
A CLEAR DEFINITION AS TO WHAT A
HATE GROUP IS OR WHO IS A HATE
GROUP.
YEAH, YOU KNOW, I'M MORE OR
LESS AGREE, COMMISSIONER
MILGROM WELL, I THINK I MEAN
PERHAPS THAT'S WHY THERE IS A
THERE IS NO SPECIFIC LANGUAGE
IN ANY OF POLICIES IDENTIFYING
HATE GROUPS BUT SO I THINK JUST
LIKE MOST POLICIES ARE SUBJECT
TO SOME, YOU KNOW, DISCRETION
AND INTERPRETATION IF IF YOU
KNOW ONE OF THE PART OF THE
COMMAND OFFICERS, YOU KNOW,
FELT THAT SOMEBODY WAS DOING
SOMETHING WAS BRINGING
DISREPUTE UPON THE DEPARTMENT,
THEN YOU KNOW, THE POLICY
CLEARLY COVERS IT.
THAT'S THAT'S THE WAY IT STANDS
NOW.
THERE MIGHT BE A FEDERAL
DEFINITION OR MAYBE A JUDICIAL
DEFINITION.
I JUST DON'T KNOW.
BUT KNOW WHENEVER I SEE THINGS
LIKE THAT BECAUSE ONE AS FAR AS
I'VE HEARD BEFORE, ONE MAN'S
FREEDOM FIGHTER IS ANOTHER
MAN'S WHAT'S THE TERM TERRORIST
RIGHT.
SO KNOW SO THAT DIFFERENCE
BECOMES REAL IMPORTANT AS TO
WHAT THE HATE GROUP AND WHO ARE
HATE GROUPS.
IT'S A GOOD POLICY BUT I THINK
THAT SOME DEFINITIONS NEED TO
BE SOME THINGS NEED TO BE
CLARIFIED IF WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE THAT POLICY.
>> THAT'S THAT'S ALL I'M
SUGGESTING.
I DON'T DISAGREE AT ALL WITH
YOU BUT I THINK WHERE THIS
COMES UP, YOU KNOW, IT WAS
REPORTED THAT I DON'T REMEMBER
THE CITY OR THE AGENCY BUT IT
WAS IT WAS LEARNED THAT THE
POLICE OFFICERS WERE ACTUALLY
ENGAGED IN ONLINE
COMMUNICATIONS AND AND
RECRUITMENT FOR I THINK IT WAS
THE PROUD BOYS ARE ONE OF THOSE
PEOPLE THAT THEY'RE PROUD OF .
BUT ONE THOSE GROUPS AND AND
AND IT WAS SO DURING
INVESTIGATION IT WAS DETERMINED
THAT THIS MEMBERSHIP AND WHAT
THEY WERE DOING BROUGHT
DISREPUTE ON THE AGENCY ITSELF
AND ON THE CITY.
AND SO THIS MIGHT BE THE WAY
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO TACKLE
IT.
I DON'T KNOW.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY INPUT ON
THIS?
I DON'T KNOW OF ANY DEFINITION
OF HATE GROUP.
OK, WELL WE'RE GOING TO BE OK
WITH THAT CAVEAT.
WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING
LEAVE IT.
YES, SIR.
THANK YOU.
>> NUMBER THREE, IT IS
RECOMMENDED THAT POLICE
OFFICERS CARRY BODY WORN
CAMERAS ANY TIME THEY ARE
EXCUSE ME THEY THEY ARE ON A
ASSIGNMENT OR OUT IN PUBLIC AND
ALL BODY WALK WORN CAMERA VIDEO
BE PRESERVED UNTIL AFTER IMPACT
REVIEW IS COMPLETED.
WE HAD THE DEPARTMENT DO A
PRESENTATION ON BODY WORN
CAMERAS A COUPLE MEETINGS AGO.
YEAH.
AND BECAUSE WE REMEMBER WE HAD
THAT COMPLAINT ALLEGING THAT
THE POLICE THE GENERAL POLICE
WERE ON MICHIGAN'S CAMPUS
DURING THE PROTESTS AND THAT
THEY DIDN'T HAVE THEIR CAMERAS
ON.
SO THE ISSUE WAS SHOULD THEY
HAVE HAD THE CAMERAS ON?
AND I THINK WHAT WE WHAT WAS
EXPLAINED TO THE COMMISSION WAS
THAT THEY WEREN'T ACTIVELY
PARTICIPATING IN ANY ARRESTS OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
SO ACCORDING TO THE THE CURRENT
POLICIES, THEY DIDN'T
NECESSARILY HAVE TO HAVE THEIR
CAMERAS ON UNLESS THEY WERE
INVOLVED IN SOME WAY WITH THE
PUBLIC.
THAT'S WHAT I RECALL OF THAT.
ARE WE SATISFIED WITH THAT
RESPONSE TO OUR RECOMMENDATION
?
I THINK THE QUESTION I HAVE IS
DO WE HAVE ENOUGH BODY WORN
CAMERAS TO COVER ALL THE POLICE
OFFICERS ON ASSIGNMENTS OR OR
JUST FEW AND YOU KNOW, THERE
ARE INCIDENTS WHERE YOU HAVE A
BIG GATHERING AND LOTS OF OUR
OFFICERS ARE OUT AND WE FEEL
LIKE AND FOOTBALL GAMES OR SOME
OTHER EVENTS AND I KNOW THERE
WAS AN INCIDENT WHERE THERE WAS
AN ENCOUNTER BUT THERE WAS NO
BODY WORN CAMERA TO EVALUATE
BECAUSE THE OFFICER DID NOT
HAVE THAT THEY ARE COMING OUT
OF THE STADIUM AND THEY DID NOT
HAVE THAT ON YET.
THEY WERE ENGAGED IN INCIDENT
AND I THINK HAVING A BODY WORN
CAMERA WOULD BE A A BETTER WAY
OF LOOKING AT THE INCIDENT IN
CASE THERE IS A COMPLAINT ABOUT
THAT.
AND FOR US IT WOULD BE MORE
OF UNBIASED WHEN WE REVIEW
THOSE INCIDENTS AND HAVING A
BODY WORN CAMERA WOULD BE
REALLY SOMETHING A SOURCE TO
MAKE SURE THAT EITHER
ALLEGATIONS ARE SUSTAINED OR
NOT.
BUT I THINK IF WE DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH WE SHOULD HAVE AND
AGAIN, I DON'T WANT THIS IS NOT
A QUESTION OF WHO I CAN GET YOU
ALL THE INFORMATION THAT WE
HAVE TALKED ABOUT.
WE DON'T WANT TO PUT ANYONE ON
THE SPOT.
DID YOU EVER WANT TO SAY
ANYTHING THAT'S THAT'S FINE.
>> SO OK, I I CAN PREPARE A MR.
PHILLIPS, DID YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> I DON'T THINK EVERY OFFICER
WEARS A BODY WORN CAMERA RIGHT
.
IT'S OFFICERS ON PATROL AND
OTHER THINGS I DON'T THINK
DETECTIVES OR OTHER PEOPLE WEAR
SO I THINK WE NEED TO BE
CAREFUL WITH THE LANGUAGE AS TO
WHO WE'RE EXPECTING TO HAVE A
BODY ON CAMERA AND SO MAYBE THE
CHIEF OR SOMEBODY CAN SPEAK TO
WHO DOES WEAR THE CAMERA
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK EVERY AND
IF I REMEMBER THAT INCIDENT I
MIGHT BE REMEMBERED IT WRONG.
IT WAS AN OFFICER SOMEBODY WHO
WAS NOT IN UNIFORM OR
SOMETHING.
IS THAT CORRECT?
THEY WERE WEARING UNIFORMS.
YES.
I DIDN'T HAVE IT.
BUT IS THE REQUIREMENT JUST FOR
YES.
OFFICERS IN UNIFORM WHO HAVE TO
BUT IS THE REQUIREMENT JUST FOR
WEAR THE BODY WARM CAMERA OR
OFFICERS IN UNIFORM WHO HAVE TO
WHAT IS THE THE REASONING
WEAR THE BODY WARM CAMERA OR
BEHIND THAT CHIEF POLICE I
WHAT IS THE THE REASONING
THINK THANKS FOR ASKING MADAM
BEHIND THAT CHIEF POLICE I
CHAIR.
THINK THANKS FOR ASKING MADAM
IT CAN ALSO COMMISSIONER PELOPS
CHAIR.
ALL PUT POLICE OFFICERS IN
IT CAN ALSO COMMISSIONER PELOPS
UNIFORM IN PATROL HAT BODY WORN
ALL PUT POLICE OFFICERS IN
CAMERAS AND WE ALSO HAVE
UNIFORM IN PATROL HAT BODY WORN
ADDITIONAL
CAMERAS FOR
INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE PLACED IN
A POSITION WHERE THEY'RE IN
UNIFORM AND THEY NEED BODY WORN
CAMERAS.
OF COURSE THERE ARE TIMES IF WE
HAVE POLICE OFFICERS THAT WORK
IN AN UNDERCOVER CAPACITY
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE A
BODY ONE CAMERA.
SO SO WE DO HAVE BODY ONE
CAMERA ALSO IF I MAY, THE
SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER,
THE SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER
IS SOMETHING THAT YOU CAN LOOK
UP.
IT'S OPEN SOURCE.
IT HAS A HATE CRIME MAP
DEFINITIONS OF CRIMES IN EVERY
STATE IN AMERICA AND IT TELLS
YOU WHAT HATE CRIMES ARE OUT
THERE, WHAT THEY'RE DOING AND
HOW WE'RE TRACKING THEM.
SO WE'RE AWARE OF THE HATE
CRIMES ON THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
WHEN YOU'RE HIRED WE LOOK AT
YOUR BACKGROUND.
PART OF THE BACKGROUND IS TO
LOOK AT WHETHER OR NOT YOU WERE
INVOLVED IN ANY TYPE OF GANG OR
HATE CRIME.
AND ADDITIONALLY, WE ALSO LOOK
AT YOUR SOCIAL MEDIA.
SO IF YOU'RE COMMUNICATING WITH
A HATE CRIME GROUP THROUGH
SOCIAL MEDIA, WE WILL CAPTURE
THAT INFORMATION.
THAT INFORMATION IS FUNNELED
THROUGH OUR PROFESSIONAL
STANDARDS ALSO THROUGH OUR
HIRING PROCESS AND UP TO THE
POLICE CHIEF AND I WOULD NOT
HIRE SOMEONE THAT'S BEEN
INVOLVED IN A HATE CRIME.
>> THANK YOU VERY WELCOME.
>> SO MADAM CHAIR.
YES, I'M SORRY.
I'M JUST WONDERING THERE MIGHT
BE A DISTINCTION BETWEEN A HATE
CRIME AND DEFINITION OF A HATE
GROUP AND THE RECOMMENDATION
SPEAKS TO HATE GROUPS.
SO YES, THAT'S MY ONLY THAT'S A
GREAT DISTINCTION, MR. GREEN.
>> AND SO GENERALLY SPEAKING,
IF YOU'RE IF YOU'RE IN A HATE
GROUP YOU MIGHT OFTEN BE
COMMITTING HATE CRIMES AND SO
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT EVEN IF YOU'RE
AFFILIATED WITH A HATE GROUP,
YOU DO NOT FIT THE CRITERION TO
WORK.
AND THE ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND IF WE FIND OUT
IF SOMEONE IS INVOLVED IN A
HATE GROUP, THEY WILL NO LONGER
BE IN ANN ARBOR.
>> POLICE OFFICER, THANK YOU.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF WE'RE YOU
KNOW, ONE OF THE JUSTICES
OF THE SUPREME COURT ONCE SAID
I CAN'T DEFINE PORNOGRAPHY BUT
I KNOW IT WHEN I SEE IT.
>> SO THIS MAY BE ONE OF THE
ONE OF THOSE THINGS I MIGHT NOT
BE ABLE TO DEFINE AS A HATE
GROUP, BUT I I KNOW WHEN I SEE
IT SO OK, I'M EXPLAINING JUST
JUST REAL QUICK SORRY I WANT TO
MAKE A NOTE ON THAT.
I KNOW CHERCOVER YOU MENTIONED
THE CITY POLICY.
WE ALSO HAVE AN
INTERDEPARTMENTAL POLICY 12 12
US PERSONNEL REGULATIONS THAT
KIND OF BROADLY SPEAKS TO
OFFICER CONDUCT WHETHER THAT'S
ON OR OFF DUTY SECTION F KIND
OF BROADLY STATES THE
DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES SHALL
CONDUCT THEMSELVES IN THEIR
PRIVATE AND PROFESSIONAL LIVES
IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO AVOID
BRINGING THEMSELVES OR THE
DEPARTMENT INTO DISREPUTE.
SO THAT'S KIND OF A CATCH ALL
FURTHER DOWN.
IT ALSO OF COURSE I'M GOING TO
LOSE IT BUT IT SPEAKS TO THE
EMPLOYEES BASICALLY SOCIALIZING
WITH ANYBODY OUTSIDE OF THE
DEPARTMENT THAT WOULD DO THE
SAME THING.
SO THERE'S TWO SEPARATE
SECTIONS IN OUR INTERNAL
PERSONNEL REGULATIONS POLICY
THAT KIND DIRECTLY MIRROR WHAT
YOU BROUGHT UP AS FAR AS A CITY
POLICY IS CONCERNED.
SO THAT WOULD BE A GENERAL
CATCHALL.
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT WE DO HAVE SOMETHING THAT
KIND OF UMBRELLA'S THAT IDEA.
OFFICER THOSE TWELVE, TWELVE,
TWELVE YOU KNOW, REGULATIONS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YES, MA'AM.
OK, I'M GOING TO MOVE ON TO
NUMBER FOUR.
IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT POLICE
OFFICERS HAVE ACCESS TO PHONES
THAT CAN RECORD THEIR
CONVERSATION WITH THE PUBLIC
AND AT THE VERY LEAST HAVE
PHONES AT THE POLICE STATION
THAT HAVE RECORDING CAPABLE.
THIS I THINK THIS I THINK THIS
RECOMMENDATION CAME ABOUT
BECAUSE WE HAD A COUPLE
OF COMPLAINTS THAT WERE FILED
AND THE COMPLAINT WAS ABOUT
WHAT WAS GOING ON AND WHAT THE
POLICE OFFICER SAID AND WE
COULDN'T THERE WAS NO THERE WAS
NO WAY TO TO TO TELL.
>> SO I I DON'T KNOW I CAN I
WILL CHECK LATER WITH IT WITH
THE DEPARTMENT AND SEE IF THERE
ARE PHONES THAT THAT CAN RECORD
WHEN SOMEONE CALLS IN BECAUSE
WE HAVE HAD A COUPLE
OF COMPLAINTS THAT THAT'S TRUE.
I THINK ALSO IS THERE A SOURCE
FOR US TO WHEN WE REVIEW THE
COMPLAINTS THAT IS BASICALLY
SAID ON THAT HE OR SHE HAD SAID
OR NOT AND IF THERE IS NO
RECORDING TO THE COMPLAINANT WE
ARE JUST GOING TO RELY ON THE
EVIDENCE THAT THE POLICE IS
GIVING US AND IT'S ONE SIDED
KIND OF THING.
SO IT'S REALLY HARD SOMETIMES
TO MAKE A A JUDGMENT BASED ON
ALL THE INFORMATION SOMETIMES
WE CONCUR WITH THE POLICE.
SOMETIMES WE FEEL THAT IT'S
INCONCLUSIVE BECAUSE OF LACK
OF EITHER RECORDING OR VIDEO ON
CAMERA VIEW THIS PATTERN.
>> YES, THANK YOU.
I'D JUST LIKE TO SPEAK ON THE
TOPIC OF THE PHONE RECORDINGS
THAT WE DO HAVE.
SO AT THE POLICE DEPARTMENT THE
MAJORITY OF CALLS THAT COME IN
FROM THE PUBLIC ARE FIELDED AT
OUR FRONT DESK AREA.
THAT AREA IS EITHER MANNED BY
CADET'S OFFICERS OR COMMAND
OFFICERS.
ALL THOSE LINES ARE RECORDED
ALONG WITH THE MAIN DUTY
COMMAND LINE THAT COMES INTO
THE STATION.
BEYOND THAT, THERE'S PHONE
LINES IN EVERY INDIVIDUAL
OFFICE DETECTIVE'S OFFICE,
THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
THOSE ARE NOT ALL RECORDED
THERE IS IF THERE'S SOMETHING
THAT'S GOING TO BE DISCUSSED,
THERE IS ALWAYS THE OPTION
OF MOVING TO A PHONE LINE THAT
IS RECORDED.
BUT MOST OF THE GENERAL CALLS
THAT DO COME IN TO THE STATION
COME IN THROUGH THOSE FRONT
DESK LINES THAT ARE ALL
RECORDED AND ACCESSIBLE.
>> YEP.
OK, THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
RECOMMENDATION NUMBER FIVE
EXTREME CARE BE TAKEN TO ENSURE
THAT ALL CORRECT INFORMATION IS
TRANSMITTED TO THE OFFICERS
PARTICULARLY WITH REGARD TO THE
ADDRESS OF INCIDENTS AND CALLS
FOR HELP.
WE HAD A I THINK IT WAS A
LAWSUIT AGAINST THE CITY
OFFICERS WENT TO THE WRONG
ADDRESS AND THE THE THE
CITIZENS WHO LIVED AT THAT
ADDRESS WERE QUITE UPSET THAT
THEY YOU KNOW, AT THE PRESENCE
OF THE POLICE OFFICERS.
SO I'M JUST ASSUMING THAT THAT
IS I'LL TALK TO THE BUT THAT
MAKES IT MAKES SENSE THAT THAT
AFTER ESPECIALLY AFTER THAT
INCIDENT THAT THAT THAT IS
TAKEN CARE OF STOP ME.
>> I CAN HAVE ANYTHING TO SAY
ON ANY OF THESE NUMBER SIX, IT
IS RECOMMENDED THAT ALL THE
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE APD OF AN APD
INVESTIGATION INCLUDING ANY
DISCIPLINARY ACTION TAKEN BY
THE DEPARTMENT SHOULD BE
COMPLETELY AVAILABLE TO XPAC
INFORMATION MANAGERS WITHOUT
REDACTS AND UNLESS SUCH
REDACTION IS MANDATED BY
EXISTING LAW AND WE UNDERSTAND
THAT IDENTITY OF MINORS IS
GOING TO BE BLURRED ON ANY KIND
OF CAMERA.
LET ME SAY AND I'M GOING TO
TALK ABOUT THIS LATER I'M
REALLY OFF INTO NEW AND OLD
BUSINESS BUT WE'VE BEEN WORKING
WITH THE DEPARTMENT ON A
REDACTION POLICY.
WE'VE BEEN GOING BACK AND
FORTH.
WE JUST YOU I THINK YOU GOT
TODAY A COPY OF WHAT THE POLICY
COMMITTEE HAS DRAFTED FOR THE
REDACTION POLICY AND LET ME SAY
SO EVERYBODY KNOWS WHERE I'M
COMING FROM.
I KNOW THAT THE CHAIR OF A
POLICY COMMITTEE DOESN'T EVEN
AGREE WITH ME AND THAT'S OK.
>> I THINK IT SHOULD HAVE
ACCESS TO ALL POLICE RECORDS.
>> WE ARE TOLD THAT WE HAVE TO
ABIDE BY THE FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ABOUT THE
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT,
SAYS AT ITS BEGINNING THAT THE
PURPOSE OF THE ACT IS SO THAT
THE ACTIVITIES OF GOVERNMENT
CAN BE AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC
.
WE'RE NOT THE PUBLIC WE ARE
COMMISSION THAT HAS BEEN
AUTHORIZED BY CITY COUNCIL AND
I UNDERSTAND I'VE BEEN TOLD
WILL AND EVEN CITY COUNCIL HAS
TO ABIDE BY THE FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION.
I DON'T CARE.
WE ARE SUPPOSED TO OVERSEE THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
HOW DO YOU OVERSEE WHAT YOU
CAN'T SEE?
SO IF SOMETHING IS NOT
AVAILABLE TO US AND I THINK THE
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT IS
THE FLAW IT SAYS GOVERNMENT YOU
HAVE TO GIVE THIS INFORMATION
OUT.
BUT IF THE GOVERNMENT WANT TO
SAY HEY, I'LL COME IN TO SEE
EVERYTHING, THERE'S NOTHING IN
THAT AT THAT PROHIBITS THE
GOVERNMENT FROM DOING THAT.
>> SO THAT'S THAT I KNOW I'VE
SAID THAT BEFORE AND I KNOW
OTHER COMMISSIONERS DON'T AGREE
WITH ME ON THAT
.
>> SO RIGHT NOW WE'RE GOING
BACK AND FORTH IN TERMS WHAT
INFORMATION CAN BE REDACTED
FROM REPORTS THAT THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS LOOK AT
AND FOR OUR NEW COMMISSIONERS,
OUR INFORMATION MANAGERS, ALL
OF US BASICALLY HAVE A IT'S NOT
YOU KNOW, EVERYBODY'S TALKING
ABOUT THESE WHAT THEY CALL THEM
DO NOT DENHA WHAT IS AND DO NOT
WORK IN THE CONFIDENTIALITY.
>> ALL OF US ARE BOUND BY
CONFIDENTIALITY BUT THE
INFORMATION MANAGER IS EVEN
MORE SO AS THEY'RE LOOKING AT
THESE REPORTS SO THIS ONE NO
NO.
SIX, WE'RE STILL WORKING.
WE'RE STILL WORKING ON IT.
OK AND HOPEFULLY HOPEFULLY
WE'LL WORK SOMETHING OUT.
NUMBER SEVEN, IT'S RECOMMENDED
THAT THE PD ATTEMPT TO REBUILD
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE ANN ARBOR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND I KNOW THAT
YOU KNOW, COMMISSIONER MANLEY,
WHEN I THOUGHT ABOUT YOU
JOINING US, I SAID SHE KNOWS
PEOPLE IN THE IN THE PUBLIC IN
THE PUBLIC SCHOOL
ADMINISTRATION MAYBE SHE CAN
HELP US BECAUSE AS YOU KNOW
AFTER ONE OF THE SHOOTINGS IN
SOME OTHER LOCATION THINGS
WHERE WE WERE SORT OF NOT
WELCOME IN THE IN THE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS EVEN FOR CAREER DAY WE
WERE NOT WELCOME AND I SORT
OF THINK THAT WE WANT TO GROW
OUR OWN IN TERMS OF ENCOURAGING
ARNAB YOUTH TO TAKE THE
TRAINING AND JOIN THE NRA
POLICE DEPARTMENT SO THIS ONE I
THINK WE CAN SAY WE'RE STILL
WORKING ON FOR NO.7 AND FINALLY
NUMBER EIGHT, IT IS RECOMMENDED
THAT ALL OFFICERS UNDERGO
ONGOING DOCUMENTED TRAINING IN
THE AREAS OF DE-ESCALATION
DEALING WITH PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES, COMMUNICATION
WITH THE PUBLIC AND CULTURAL
SENSITIVE TO RELATE TO OUR
DIVERSE POPULATION ON THIS ONE
OUR TRAINING COMMITTEE
HOPEFULLY WILL BE UP AND
RUNNING IN OUR GET WITH THE
TRAINING OFFICER AT THE PD AND
WE CAN SO I'LL JUST PUT ON
GOING AS WELL FOR THIS ONE
STILL.
THANK YOU.
NOW I'M GOING TO SHIFT TO DENHA
ANDERSON.
I HAVE TO COME UP BECAUSE YOU
HAVE A FEW MORE INFORMATION.
>> LET ME COME IN.
YOU COULD COME NOW.
I'D COME LATER TO OK, THANK YOU
.
YES, THAT WAS THE LAST
RECOMMENDATION FROM OUR TWENTY
TWENTY THREE REPORT.
>> OK SO WHAT I'M GOING TO DO
IS I'M GOING TO DIRECT MY STAFF
TO PROVIDE YOU WITH SOME
INFORMATION TO HELP YOU WITH
YOUR REPORT ANY YOU YOU VARY IN
IT COULD HELP YOU SO YOU HAVE
INFORMATION BECAUSE THE
INFORMATION YOU HAVE TO GLEAN
FROM US AND WE HAVE TO PROVIDE
IT TO IS SO THAT CAN BE A
CHALLENGE FROM TIME TO TIME.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
REBUILDING OUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE SCHOOLS AND I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT I PROVIDE SOME
PROOFS WITH RESPECT THAT WE'RE
WHAT WE'RE DOING.
WE ARE REBUILDING OUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SCHOOLS.
IN FACT, THE SCHOOLS HAVE ASKED
US TO ACTUALLY START WORKING
WITH THEM MORE CLOSELY, WHICH
HAS BEEN A REALLY SHOT IN TERMS
OF HOW THINGS HAVE TAKEN CLASS
AND PATH TAKING PLACE IN THE
PAST.
SO I'LL PROVIDE SOME
INFORMATION.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
DOING NOT JUST WAS THE SCHOOLS
BUT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
STUDENTS IS WE HAVE A NEW
PROGRAM CALLED WE CARE AND SO
WE'RE WORKING WITH STUDENTS.
WE'LL PROVIDE YOU MORE
INFORMATION ON THAT.
BUT I JUST WANT TO TELL YOU
WHAT WE CARE IS ABOUT WE HAD
SOME PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY
COME TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
AND ASK US TO REINSTATE THE
SCARED STRAIGHT PROGRAM THAT
WAS STARTED IN 1978 AND THAT
INFORMATION CAME BY WAY OF A
FEW CITIZENS THAT WANTED US TO
DO THAT AND THEY MET WITH OUR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT OFFICERS
BECAUSE THEY WANTED US TO BRING
YOUNG PEOPLE THAT ARE IN SCHOOL
TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
MAYBE PERHAPS TAKE THEM TO THE
PRISONS AND HAVE OUR POLICE
OFFICERS TALK TO THEM ABOUT THE
THINGS THEY SHOULD DO AND WE
DON'T DO THAT.
THAT'S WHAT WE DO.
AND SO WE STARTED A WEEK CARE
PROGRAM WHICH WAS IN DEFERENCE
TO THAT AND WE HAVE A PROGRAM
THAT'S COMING OUT WHERE WE'RE
BRINGING YOUNG PEOPLE IN AND
WE'RE GOING TO TALK TO THEM AND
TEACH THEM ABOUT WHAT WE WHAT
WE CARE ABOUT AND WHAT THEY
CARE ABOUT.
WE WILL ALSO CARVE THEIR
ACTIVITIES, CIVIC EVENTS AND WE
HAVE DECIDED WHICH ONES WE
GOING TO WORK ON YET BECAUSE WE
WANT TO WORK WITH THE SCHOOLS
AS WELL AS THE STUDENTS TO GET
INVOLVED IN VOLUNTARY
ACTIVITIES.
BUT WE ALSO WANT THEM TO HAVE
SOME CONTACT WITH THE POLICE
OFFICERS SO THAT THEY CAN SEE
THE POLICE OFFICERS IN A
POSITIVE LIGHT.
MANY OF THE POLICE OFFICERS
THAT WE'VE BEEN TALKING TO, WE
WANT THEM TO BE MORE ENGAGED
WITH THE STUDENTS IN TERMS
OF ACTIVITIES SUCH AS SPORTS,
WHETHER PLAYING A TROMBONE AND
THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
ANY OTHER THING THAT I THINK
SOMETIMES THAT IS FORGOTTEN IS
OUR POLICE OFFICERS HAVE YOUNG
PEOPLE THAT ARE STUDENTS AS
WELL.
AND SO THIS YEAR FOR AT LEAST
MYSELF WHAT I'M DEDICATING TIME
AS THE CHIEF IS TO SPEND TIME
WITH OUR POLICE OFFICERS, KIDS
AND THEIR SPORTS ACTIVITIES.
SO I'LL BE GOING ALSO WITH THEM
TO SEE THEIR KIDS WHILE THEY'RE
OUT PLAYING SPORTS WHILE ALSO
TALKING TO SOME OF THE OTHER
YOUNG PEOPLE THAT ARE IN SCHOOL
TO TALK TO THEM ABOUT WHAT
THEY'RE DOING AS WELL.
SO THIS IS JUST THE START
OF WHAT WE'RE DOING.
WE'RE STARTING A COMMUNITY
POLICING ACADEMY.
WE BRING IN OTHER PEOPLE IN.
THERE'S A LOT OF COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT ITEMS THAT WE HAVE
ON THE AGENDA.
BUT WE'LL WE WILL BRING SOME
OF THEM TO HELP WITH SOME
OF THESE ISSUES.
BUT WE ARE SLOWLY AND CAREFULLY
AND PROFESSIONALLY WORKING TO
ADVANCE OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE SCHOOL BY GETTING THE RIGHT
PEOPLE TO DO.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, CHIEF.
I JUST I WANT TO ASK AGAIN I
KNOW THAT YOU'RE DOING A LOT
OF COMMUNITY OUTREACH.
WOULD YOU HAVE YOUR OFFICE
WHENEVER YOU HAVE ANY KIND
OF PROGRAM OUT INTO THE
COMMUNITY TO LET AT LEAST LET
ME COME IN?
I KNOW AND SHE CAN PASS THAT
OUT TO THE COMMISSIONERS
BECAUSE I'M SURE THERE'S AT
LEAST ONE COMMISSIONER.
YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU HAD YOUR
PROGRAM OVER THE SUMMER.
RIGHT.
I THINK THERE WERE LIKE FIVE
COMMISSIONERS WENT TO LAW.
SO WE SURE WE WANT TO BE
ENGAGED WITH OK.
>> YEAH YOU'VE ASKED IT BEFORE
WE REALLY DO NEED TO DO A
BETTER JOB OF THAT AND ALSO
CREATING A PLATFORM WHERE WE'LL
HAVE IT.
SO WE HAVE A FEW EVENTS THAT
ARE COMING UP AND WILL PROVIDE
TO YOU ONE THING THAT I THINK
WILL BE COULD BE OF INTEREST
WE'RE WORKING ON A DATE IS
WORKING WITH OUR DOWNTOWN
MERCHANTS PRIMARILY BECAUSE
SOME OF THE CONCERNS THAT THEY
THAT THEY HAVE.
BUT WHAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT IS
NOT JUST THE CONCERNS BUT WHAT
A POLICE DEPARTMENT'S RESPONSE
TO IT IS.
WE HAVE A DOWNTOWN RESPONSE
TEAM THAT WILL BE CREATING QR
CODES.
THOSE QR CODES WILL ALLOW
PEOPLE TO CONTACT THEM BY WAY
OF THOSE QR CODES AND GET THE
POLICE OFFICERS RIGHT OUT
THERE.
THOSE BEAT OFFICERS YOU WERE
INVOLVED IN OUR BEE PROGRAM.
NOW THAT COMMUNITY POLICING BEE
PROGRAM IS UP AND RUNNING.
IT'LL ALLOW FOR THEM TO MONITOR
THINGS FROM TIME TO TIME, CARVE
OUT A RESPONSE AND HELP THE
PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
THAT WE'RE DOING AND WE NEED TO
GET YOU INVOLVED WITH RESPECT
TO COME TO THOSE COMMUNITY
MEETINGS AND THOSE COMMUNITY
MEETINGS ARE NOT ALWAYS
FAVORABLE TO THE POLICE AND WE
UNDERSTAND THAT BECAUSE WE WANT
TO HEAR SOMEONE IS CONCERNED.
SO WHEN YOU COME YOU WILL HEAR
IT'S NOT ALL FAVORABLE BUT
YOU'LL HEAR YOU HEAR OUR
RESPONSE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALMOST DONE WITH THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS SO THE ONLY NEW
AND IT'S NOT REALLY A NEW
RECOMMENDATION IS A SERIOUS
INCIDENT RESPONSE
RECOMMENDATION THAT SORT
OF CAME AGAIN LAST YEAR AND I'D
LIKE TO ADD THAT AS A NEW
RECOMMENDATION IN THE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REPORT I THINK YOU
HAVE THAT ALSO MIGHT NOT HAVE
IN FRONT BUT WE HAD IT AT THE
LAST MEETING WHICH WOULD ASK
THE DEPARTMENT TO NOTIFY THE
CHAIR OF THE PARK IF THERE'S A
SERIOUS INCIDENT AND THAT WAS
DEFINED AS A SHOOTING OR
SOMETHING THAT PUTS SOMEONE IN
THE HOSPITAL AND AND I DID
BRING THIS UP AND THE RESPONSE
SORT OF WAS WELL IF THERE'S
THAT SERIOUS INCIDENT THE AND
OUR POLICE DOES NOT DEPARTMENT
DOES NOT INVESTIGATE.
IT'S USUALLY DONE BY LIKE THE
STATE POLICE.
BUT I THINK THE THE IDEA
OF THAT RECOMMENDATION WAS NOT
THAT THEY INVESTIGATION
IMMEDIATELY BE CONVEYED BUT
THAT THE FACT OF WHAT HAPPENED
BE CONVEYED TO EPOCH AND SO I'M
GOING TO ADD THAT AS A
RECOMMENDATION FROM TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND WE'LL WORK ON
IT THIS YEAR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE THINK
OF ANY OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS
AND I KNOW I HAD I HAD BROUGHT
UP THE IDEA OF US GOING BACK
OVER THE LAST FOUR YEARS MAKE
SURE WE HAVEN'T DROPPED
ANYTHING AND I'M GOING TO BRING
THAT BACK UP BUT OK CHIEF SO
I'M REALLY GLAD YOU ACTUALLY
TALKED ABOUT THE SERIOUS
INCIDENT
RESPONSE TO CRITICAL
RESPONSE.
SO I JUST WANT TO CREATE SOME
CLARITY.
I THINK THAT WHEN YOU HAVE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION AND THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS SOMETHING
HAPPENED THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
HAS GOT TO TALK TO THE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
WE REALLY DO EVEN IF SOMETHING
IS WRONG, WE HAVE TO WE HAVE TO
TALK TO YOU ABOUT IT.
WE HAVE TO THAT IS THAT IS A
THAT IS A THAT IS AN EVIDENCE
BASED PRACTICE THAT IS DONE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
BUT HERE'S HERE'S A COUPLE
OF CHALLENGES THAT YOU HAVE TO
KNOW IN THE MANNER OF A POLICE
DEPARTMENT OUR AGENCY DOES NOT
INVESTIGATE THEIR OWN SHOOTING
OFFICER INVOLVED SHOOTINGS OR
DEATHS.
WE DON'T HIS SOTOS
INVESTIGATIONS ARE DONE BY THE
STATE POLICE WANT THE STATE
POLICE COMES IN.
THEY HAVE JURISDICTION OVER THE
INVESTIGATION AND SOMETIMES WE
HAVE TO WORK WITH THEM IN TERMS
OF WHAT WE CAN RELEASE AND HOW
WE TALK ABOUT THE INCIDENT.
SO THAT IS UNKNOWN WITH RESPECT
TO WHAT WE CAN PUT OUT BECAUSE
IF THERE'S ANOTHER AGENCY IN
CHARGE OF THE INVESTIGATION IS
A CHALLENGE FOR US TO START
TALKING ABOUT THAT
INVESTIGATION.
SO THOSE ARE THE CONCERNS THAT
WE HAVE.
BUT SOME OF THE SERIOUS
INSTANCES WHERE WE WHERE WE HAD
TO DEFINE WHAT A SERIOUS
INCIDENT IS AND THEN WE HAD TO
DEFINE THE PARAMETERS AND SO WE
ARE WORKING ON THAT TO ACHIEVE
THE DIRECTIVE WHICH IS ALREADY
IN DRAFT.
BUT WHAT I WANT YOU TO KNOW IS
THAT IF WE HAVE A SERIOUS
INCIDENT AS YOU PROBABLY KNOW
AS A POLICE CHIEF THERE GOING
TO BE A LOT OF PEOPLE
CONTACTING THIS MANY TIMES IS
MAJOR, MAJOR AFFILIATIONS WITH
THE NETWORKS TV POLICE COUNTY
PROSECUTORS, THE STATE POLICE.
THERE WILL BE MANY PEOPLE AND
SO IN THAT TIME IT'S A
RELATIVELY REALLY BUSY TIME
FRAME AND WHAT HAPPENS IS
OFTENTIMES IN A SERIOUS
INCIDENT THE FIRST THREE OR
FOUR DAYS YOU DON'T HAVE
ACCURATE INFORMATION AND A LOT
OF PEOPLE THINK WE DO AND YOU
DO NOT YOU DO NOT HAVE ACCURATE
INFORMATION.
SO IF YOU PUT INFORMATION OUT
RELATIVELY QUICKLY IT'S GOING
TO BE WRONG BECAUSE YOU START
LEARNING MORE ABOUT WHAT
TRANSPIRED.
IT TAKES AT LEAST THREE TO FOUR
OR FIVE DAYS TO REALLY GET
ACCURATE INFORMATION.
SO WE GOT TO CARVE OUT A WAY TO
TALK TO YOU AND LIKELY WHAT I
THINK WILL HAPPEN IS WE ALL GET
TOGETHER INITIALLY AND KIND
OF GIVE YOU AN OVERVIEW OF WHAT
TRANSPIRED BUT WE WON'T BE ABLE
TO GIVE THE SPECIFICS BECAUSE
WE MAY NOT KNOW ALL THE
SPECIFICS.
SO THAT'S KIND OF WHAT WE WILL
HAVE TO DO.
BUT WE DO WANT TO MAKE SURE WE
TRANSPAC WITH YOU BECAUSE YOU
NEED TO BE ABLE TO TALK TO THE
COMMUNITY IF THE POLICE
OFFICERS OR WHEN THE POLICE
OFFICERS ARE DOING THE RIGHT
THING, IT IS SOMETHING SHOULD
HAPPEN WHERE WE NEED TO MAKE
ADJUSTMENTS.
YOU DO NEED TO KNOW ABOUT IT SO
THAT THAT IS OUR PLAN AND WE
WILL GET A TIMELINE ON THAT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND SO WE WE WILL INCLUDE THIS
AS A RECOMMENDATION.
THE POINT BEING I THINK NOT SO
MUCH WE WANT TO KNOW ALL ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THE
INVESTIGATION.
BUT AS YOU STATE WHEN SOMETHING
HAPPENS RIGHT.
JOE BLOW WAS SHOT ON MAIN
STREET RIGHT?
WELL, WITHIN A FEW HOURS IT'S
ALL ALL KINDS OF STORIES ARE
GOING TO BE ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED
AND SO WHAT THE WHAT THIS
POLICY DOES IT WOULD SEEM TO ME
IT MAKE IT EASIER FOR THE
DEPARTMENT.
WE'VE GIVEN A STATEMENT TO NPR,
YOU KNOW, TALK TO RPD.
THEY KNOW AT THIS POINT WHAT WE
KNOW.
>> AND SO THAT'S THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE THAT'S WHAT WE ARE REALLY
LOOKING FOR WITH THIS.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND
WE'LL BE WORKING ON IT WITH
YOU, OK?
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
YEAH.
CHAIR MADAM CHAIR.
JUST FOR VERIFICATION
YEAH.
RECOMMENDATION NUMBER ONE FROM
JUST FOR VERIFICATION
TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
RECOMMENDATION NUMBER ONE FROM
>> YES.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
IS IT MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
>> YES.
THAT POLICY HAS BEEN ADOPTED
IS IT MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
WAS THAT WHAT I HEARD IT HAS
THAT POLICY HAS BEEN ADOPTED
BEEN IMPLEMENTED YES.
WAS THAT WHAT I HEARD IT HAS
>> WHICH MEANS THAT WHENEVER
BEEN IMPLEMENTED YES.
SOMEONE IS STOPPED BY AN
>> WHICH MEANS THAT WHENEVER
OFFICER IN A PATROL CAR THE
SOMEONE IS STOPPED BY AN
FIRST THING THE OFFICER DOES IS
OFFICER IN A PATROL CAR THE
IDENTIFY HIMSELF OR HERSELF.
FIRST THING THE OFFICER DOES IS
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
IDENTIFY HIMSELF OR HERSELF.
I THINK THAT'S THE POLICY AND
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
AND AND IT'S NOT AS I
I THINK THAT'S THE POLICY AND
UNDERSTAND IT WASN'T EVERY
AND AND IT'S NOT AS I
TIME.
UNDERSTAND IT WASN'T EVERY
BUT IF IT YOU KNOW IF IT'S A
TIME.
POLICE CHASE OR SOMETHING WHERE
BUT IF IT YOU KNOW IF IT'S A
IT'S NOT PRACTICAL BUT YEAH.
POLICE CHASE OR SOMETHING WHERE
>> GO AHEAD CHIEF.
IT'S NOT PRACTICAL BUT YEAH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> GO AHEAD CHIEF.
SO THE POLICY IS SUCH THAT WHEN
>> THANK YOU.
YOU STOP THERE'S A COUPLE
SO THE POLICY IS SUCH THAT WHEN
OF THINGS THE OFFICERS IS
YOU STOP THERE'S A COUPLE
REQUIRED TO DO AND I THINK IS
OF THINGS THE OFFICERS IS
MADAM CHAIR STATED THERE'S A
REQUIRED TO DO AND I THINK IS
CAVEAT THAT THERE'S AN
MADAM CHAIR STATED THERE'S A
EMERGENCY.
CAVEAT THAT THERE'S AN
YOU KNOW, A PERSON IS INVOLVED
EMERGENCY.
IN SOME IS CRIME AND WE'RE
YOU KNOW, A PERSON IS INVOLVED
STOPPING THEM WOULD PROBABLY
IN SOME IS CRIME AND WE'RE
NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH THE
STOPPING THEM WOULD PROBABLY
STEPS, YOU KNOW YOU KNOW,
NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH THE
IDENTIFYING THEMSELVES AS A
STEPS, YOU KNOW YOU KNOW,
POLICE OFFICER AND AND THEN
IDENTIFYING THEMSELVES AS A
GIVEN THE REASON FOR THE STOP
POLICE OFFICER AND AND THEN
BUT REALLY IS SET UP FOR A
GIVEN THE REASON FOR THE STOP
POLICE OFFICER TO IDENTIFY
BUT REALLY IS SET UP FOR A
THEMSELVES, TELL THEM THE
POLICE OFFICER TO IDENTIFY
NATURE OF THE STOP.
THEMSELVES, TELL THEM THE
THOSE ARE THE TWO COMPONENTS
NATURE OF THE STOP.
AND THAT THAT RECOMMENDATION
THOSE ARE THE TWO COMPONENTS
WHILE IT CAME TO A PARK WAS
AND THAT THAT RECOMMENDATION
ALSO SOMETHING THAT CAME
WHILE IT CAME TO A PARK WAS
THROUGH TO DRIVE A QUALITY
ALSO SOMETHING THAT CAME
ORDINANCE AS WELL.
THROUGH TO DRIVE A QUALITY
SO WE PUT THAT TOGETHER IN
ORDINANCE AS WELL.
COORDINATION TO BOTH.
SO WE PUT THAT TOGETHER IN
BUT IT'S REALLY THOSE TWO
COORDINATION TO BOTH.
THINGS.
BUT IT'S REALLY THOSE TWO
HI OR GOOD EVENING.
THINGS.
I'M OFFICER ANDERSON AND I
HI OR GOOD EVENING.
STOPPED YOU FOR THIS REASON.
I'M OFFICER ANDERSON AND I
THOSE ARE THE TWO THINGS THAT
STOPPED YOU FOR THIS REASON.
WE WANT OUR OFFICERS TO DO SO
THOSE ARE THE TWO THINGS THAT
THAT IS NOW THE POLICY.
WE WANT OUR OFFICERS TO DO SO
SO THE EXCEPTION IS WHEN
THAT IS NOW THE POLICY.
THERE'S AN EMERGENCY OR YES.
SO THE EXCEPTION IS WHEN
THE EXCEPTION IS WHEN THERE IS
THERE'S AN EMERGENCY OR YES.
AN EMERGENCY OR CHASE OR CHASE
THE EXCEPTION IS WHEN THERE IS
OR YOU YES.
AN EMERGENCY OR CHASE OR CHASE
IF YOU CHASE IS SOMEONE YOU
OR YOU YES.
STOP THEM.
IF YOU CHASE IS SOMEONE YOU
OBVIOUSLY WE WOULDN'T HAVE THE
STOP THEM.
ABILITY TO JUST WALK UP TO THE
OBVIOUSLY WE WOULDN'T HAVE THE
CAR AND CREATE THAT TYPE
ABILITY TO JUST WALK UP TO THE
OF INTRODUCTION.
CAR AND CREATE THAT TYPE
BUT THERE ARE VERY, VERY FEW
OF INTRODUCTION.
INSTANCES WHEN THAT SHOULD
BUT THERE ARE VERY, VERY FEW
OCCUR.
INSTANCES WHEN THAT SHOULD
IT'S JUST FOR OUR REGULAR
OCCUR.
CONVERSATIONS WITH RESPECT TO
IT'S JUST FOR OUR REGULAR
TRAFFIC STOPS.
CONVERSATIONS WITH RESPECT TO
THANK YOU.
TRAFFIC STOPS.
>> WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, OFFICER.
>> WELCOME.
>> AND ONE OTHER RECOMMENDATION
THANK YOU, OFFICER.
THAT I WOULD LIKE FROM IS THAT
>> AND ONE OTHER RECOMMENDATION
IS THAT THE THE CITY CONTINUE
THAT I WOULD LIKE FROM IS THAT
TO WORK TOWARDS SOME KIND
IS THAT THE THE CITY CONTINUE
OF NON ARMED RESPONSE.
TO WORK TOWARDS SOME KIND
>> THANK YOU.
OF NON ARMED RESPONSE.
SOME KIND OF UNARMED RESPONSE
>> THANK YOU.
THAT AND I DON'T KNOW WHERE
SOME KIND OF UNARMED RESPONSE
THAT'S GOING BUT I'D LIKE TO
THAT AND I DON'T KNOW WHERE
SUGGEST THAT WE CONTINUE TO
THAT'S GOING BUT I'D LIKE TO
LOOK AT I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
SUGGEST THAT WE CONTINUE TO
GOING TO BE POSSIBLE.
LOOK AT I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
>> IT DOESN'T THAT DEPEND ON
GOING TO BE POSSIBLE.
THE SITUATION?
>> IT DOESN'T THAT DEPEND ON
>> YEAH, IT ABSOLUTELY DEPENDS
THE SITUATION?
ON THE SITUATION I WAS READING
>> YEAH, IT ABSOLUTELY DEPENDS
TODAY NATIONWIDE THIS THIS
ON THE SITUATION I WAS READING
ARTICLE SAYS 64 PERCENT
TODAY NATIONWIDE THIS THIS
OF DEADLY POLICE SHOOTINGS
ARTICLE SAYS 64 PERCENT
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE FROM
OF DEADLY POLICE SHOOTINGS
TRAFFIC STOPS AND MENTAL HEALTH
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE FROM
EMERGENCIES.
TRAFFIC STOPS AND MENTAL HEALTH
SO THAT'S THAT'S A LOT.
EMERGENCIES.
AND IF THEY CAN I DON'T KNOW I
SO THAT'S THAT'S A LOT.
DON'T KNOW WHERE IT HAS BEEN
AND IF THEY CAN I DON'T KNOW I
DONE SUCCESSFULLY AND I KNOW
DON'T KNOW WHERE IT HAS BEEN
THAT I COUNCILPERSON HARRISON,
DONE SUCCESSFULLY AND I KNOW
IS THAT IS THAT STILL ON
THAT I COUNCILPERSON HARRISON,
COUNCIL'S AGENDA OF AN ARMED
IS THAT IS THAT STILL ON
RESPONSE OR.
COUNCIL'S AGENDA OF AN ARMED
YES.
RESPONSE OR.
OK.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
OK.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
>> GO RIGHT AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
YES, MA'AM.
>> GO RIGHT AHEAD.
I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY FOR
YES, MA'AM.
COMMISSIONER GREENE THERE AND I
I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY FOR
KNOW COMMISSIONER MILGROM LIKES
COMMISSIONER GREENE THERE AND I
POLICY NUMBERS HIMSELF AND I'M
KNOW COMMISSIONER MILGROM LIKES
SORRY I FORGOT TO INTRODUCE
POLICY NUMBERS HIMSELF AND I'M
MYSELF THE FIRST TIME I CAME
SORRY I FORGOT TO INTRODUCE
UP.
MYSELF THE FIRST TIME I CAME
I'M SERGEANT KING.
UP.
I'M WITH THE PROFESSIONAL
I'M SERGEANT KING.
STANDARDS SECTION.
I'M WITH THE PROFESSIONAL
SO LIEUTENANT PETRELLI IS MY
STANDARDS SECTION.
IMMEDIATE BOSS OUTSIDE THE BIG
SO LIEUTENANT PETRELLI IS MY
BOSS HERE.
IMMEDIATE BOSS OUTSIDE THE BIG
BUT WE DO ALL THE INTERNAL
BOSS HERE.
AFFAIRS STUFF AND HAVE BEEN
BUT WE DO ALL THE INTERNAL
WORKING WITH THE REST OF AS
AFFAIRS STUFF AND HAVE BEEN
WELL SINCE I'VE BEEN UP HERE.
WORKING WITH THE REST OF AS
SO ANYWAYS WITH THAT BEING SAID
WELL SINCE I'VE BEEN UP HERE.
,OUR TRAFFIC STOP POLICY THE
SO ANYWAYS WITH THAT BEING SAID
GENERAL TRAFFIC STOP POLICY
,OUR TRAFFIC STOP POLICY THE
THAT I MENTIONED BEFORE THAT IS
GENERAL TRAFFIC STOP POLICY
POLICY ZERO SIX TWO ZERO ZERO
THAT I MENTIONED BEFORE THAT IS
SIX TRAFFIC STOPS UNDER THE
POLICY ZERO SIX TWO ZERO ZERO
FIRST ACTUALLY I GUESS IT'S THE
SIX TRAFFIC STOPS UNDER THE
THIRD SECTION UNDER PROCEDURE.
FIRST ACTUALLY I GUESS IT'S THE
IT'S PRETTY CLEARLY STATED THAT
THIRD SECTION UNDER PROCEDURE.
ALL OFFICERS CONDUCTING TRAFFIC
IT'S PRETTY CLEARLY STATED THAT
STOP WILL DO SO IN A FAIR AND
ALL OFFICERS CONDUCTING TRAFFIC
PROFESSIONAL MANNER CORRECTING
STOP WILL DO SO IN A FAIR AND
UNSAFE DRIVING HABITS.
PROFESSIONAL MANNER CORRECTING
VIOLATORS CAN BEST BE ACHIEVED
UNSAFE DRIVING HABITS.
BY OFFICERS TAKING NECESSARY
VIOLATORS CAN BEST BE ACHIEVED
ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
BY OFFICERS TAKING NECESSARY
COMMUNICATING WITH TRAFFIC
ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
VIOLATORS IN A COURTEOUS AND
COMMUNICATING WITH TRAFFIC
PROFESSIONAL MANNER GOES ON TO
VIOLATORS IN A COURTEOUS AND
SAY OFFICERS SHALL GREET THE
PROFESSIONAL MANNER GOES ON TO
MOTORIST IN A PROFESSIONAL AND
SAY OFFICERS SHALL GREET THE
COURTEOUS MANNER IDENTIFYING
MOTORIST IN A PROFESSIONAL AND
ONESELF BY RANK, NAME AND
COURTEOUS MANNER IDENTIFYING
NATURE OF THE STOP.
ONESELF BY RANK, NAME AND
AN EXCEPTION IS IF THE
NATURE OF THE STOP.
CIRCUMSTANCE OF THE STOP IS
AN EXCEPTION IS IF THE
IMPRACTICAL IMPRACTICAL SUCH AS
CIRCUMSTANCE OF THE STOP IS
A FELONY STOP OR SOME SORT
IMPRACTICAL IMPRACTICAL SUCH AS
OF DYNAMIC SITUATION LIKE THAT
A FELONY STOP OR SOME SORT
SIR.
OF DYNAMIC SITUATION LIKE THAT
>> SO IN ADDITION TO THE
SIR.
NUMBER, CAN YOU ALSO PERHAPS
>> SO IN ADDITION TO THE
TELL ME WHEN THAT POLICY WAS
NUMBER, CAN YOU ALSO PERHAPS
LAST AMENDED?
TELL ME WHEN THAT POLICY WAS
>> I CAN AND I WAS GETTING
LAST AMENDED?
READY TO BECAUSE I THOUGHT YOU
>> I CAN AND I WAS GETTING
MIGHT SAY THAT WAS LAST
READY TO BECAUSE I THOUGHT YOU
REVIEWED MAY 2ND OF TWENTY
MIGHT SAY THAT WAS LAST
TWENTY FOUR.
REVIEWED MAY 2ND OF TWENTY
SO THAT SPECIFIC LANGUAGE HAS
TWENTY FOUR.
BEEN THE MOST RECENT POLICY
SO THAT SPECIFIC LANGUAGE HAS
UPDATE SINCE MAY.
BEEN THE MOST RECENT POLICY
>> YEAH.
UPDATE SINCE MAY.
OK, GREAT THANK YOU.
>> YEAH.
YES MA'AM.
OK, GREAT THANK YOU.
OK SO WHAT I'VE PLANNED TO DO
YES MA'AM.
AND AGAIN WE WANT TO GET THIS
OK SO WHAT I'VE PLANNED TO DO
OUR TWENTY TWENTY FOURTH ANNUAL
AND AGAIN WE WANT TO GET THIS
REPORT OUT I HOPE TO GET YOU A
OUR TWENTY TWENTY FOURTH ANNUAL
DRAFT OF AT LEAST THE LANGUAGE
REPORT OUT I HOPE TO GET YOU A
AND WE DO HAVE SOME NICE
DRAFT OF AT LEAST THE LANGUAGE
PICTURES FROM LAST YEAR THAT
AND WE DO HAVE SOME NICE
WILL INCORPORATE AND MISS
PICTURES FROM LAST YEAR THAT
KENNEDY DID A GREAT JOB WITH
WILL INCORPORATE AND MISS
OUR GRAPHS AND SHE'S GOING TO
KENNEDY DID A GREAT JOB WITH
DO IT AGAIN SO HOPEFULLY IF I
OUR GRAPHS AND SHE'S GOING TO
GET YOU OUT THE DRAFT LANGUAGE
DO IT AGAIN SO HOPEFULLY IF I
NEXT WEEK THEN WE SHOULD BE
GET YOU OUT THE DRAFT LANGUAGE
ABLE TO GET EVERYTHING
NEXT WEEK THEN WE SHOULD BE
FINALIZED.
ABLE TO GET EVERYTHING
>> OK, CINEQUEST GEMZAR INPUT
FINALIZED.
ABOUT THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
>> OK, CINEQUEST GEMZAR INPUT
ANNUAL REPORT.
ABOUT THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
I HAVE A QUESTION SURE.
ANNUAL REPORT.
ON
ALL OF THESE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT HAVE NOT ALREADY BEEN
IMPLEMENTED TO VOTE ON THEM AT
SOME POINT OR WHAT IS THE
PROCESS WE VOTED ON THEM
ACTUALLY VOTED ON THE ONES THAT
WERE IN THE PILE WERE IN THE
REPORT FROM LAST TWENTY TWENTY
THREE THE FIFTH YES.
>> YES.
THOSE FROM TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AND SO WE'RE IN OUR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REPORT WE'RE GOING
TO REPORT ON WHAT HAS HAPPENED
IF ANYTHING WITH THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AND THEN WE HAVE
THE TWO NEW ONES UNLESS
SOMEBODY HAS ANOTHER ONE THAT
THEY WANT TO TO BRING UP THAT
I'M JUST AGREEING AND THAT
SUGGEST ONE OF THE
RECOMMENDATION IF IT'S NOT
ALREADY A POLICY IF THERE IS AN
OBVIOUS MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS
THAT THERE'S AN AUTOMATIC
INTERVENTION OF MENTAL HEALTH
TREATMENT PERSONNEL.
I SEE I THINK AT ONE TIME THE
DEPARTMENT OR MAYBE SOMETHING
ABOUT THE SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT
WHAT WAS THE SHERIFF'S
DEPARTMENT THAT WORK THAT WORKS
WITH COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH
THAT'S AT US.
>> SO THE SHERIFF'S OFFICE DOES
HAVE YOU KNOW, LIKE A RESPONSE
TEAM OR THEY'LL HAVE A
CASEWORKER ALONG WITH A DEPUTY
THAT COMES OUT RESPONDS TO THE
MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS IN
PROGRESS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'VE
DONE IN PRACTICE JUST KIND
OF INFORMALLY AND I'LL TRY TO
FIND A POLICY ON THAT FOR YOU
AT SOME POINT LATER BUT SINCE
I'VE BEEN ON THE ROAD IT WAS
COMMON KNOWLEDGE THAT CMH IS A
READILY AVAILABLE RESOURCE IN
THE COMMUNITY HERE.
SO IT'S NOT UNCOMMON ALMOST
DAILY I'D SAY MENTAL HEALTH
CALLS JUST TO GET ON THE RADIO
AND REQUEST DISPATCH CONTACT
CMH.
I'M PRETTY SURE PROBABLY EVERY
OFFICER THERE WORKING THE ROAD
RIGHT NOW HAS THE CMH CRISIS
LINE PROGRAMED INTO THEIR
PHONE.
SO THAT'S A RESOURCE THAT WE
USE IF NOT ON A DAILY BASIS AT
LEAST ON A WEEKLY BASIS AND
WE'LL CALL AND TRY TO
DE-ESCALATE AND HOLD DOWN A
SCENE UNTIL THOSE CRISIS
RESPONSE TEAMS CAN COME OUT AND
DEAL WITH THOSE KIND OF MENTAL
HEALTH CRISIS INCIDENTS.
THEY FOLLOW UP ON
COMMISSIONERS' GREEN'S
SUGGESTION I THINK
RECOMMENDATION EIGHT WHAT WE
NEED TO DO IS WE NEED TO ADD
THAT TO THE COMMISSION EIGHT
BECAUSE IT SAYS THAT ALL
OFFICERS UNDERGO AN ONGOING
DOCUMENTED TRAINING IN AREAS
OF DE-ESCALATION DEALING WITH
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
ADD TO THAT AND PERSONS WITH
MENTAL HEALTH WITH OBVIOUS
OBVIOUS MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES,
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
HOW DO YOU WANT TO JUST WORK ON
THAT?
WE'LL WORK ON IT.
YEAH.
OK, SO I AM TRYING TO ASK THE
QUESTION ALSO OF BOTH OF YOU.
SO IS THERE TRAINING NOW
HAPPENING FOR FOR THE OFFICERS
IN DEALING WITH THE MENTAL
HEALTH CRISIS?
TRAINING IS HAPPENING TODAY AND
IS OF INTEREST.
IT IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW.
WE HAVE PUT TOGETHER A NEW
POLICY WITH DE-ESCALATION
OF THAT TRAINING ALSO DEALS
WITH HOW WE ADDRESS INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE IN CRISIS.
SO WE ARE DOING OUR TRAINING
RIGHT NOW AND ALL THE EVERYONE
IN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IS
GETTING DE-ESCALATION TRAINING
WITH RESPECT TO HOW WE RESPOND
TO PEOPLE IN MENTAL DISTRESS.
BUT THAT'S WE STILL NEED A LOT
MORE WORK AND TRAINING.
AND SO THE OTHER THING AND I
WANTED TO TELL YOU IS WHEN
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE TYPES
OF RESPONSES THAT WE HAVE IN
TERMS OF PERSON MENTAL
DISTRESS, WE OFTEN HEAR A CALL
RESPONSE.
THERE'S ALSO AN ALTERNATIVE
OUR ORGANIZATION LED BY OUR
RESPONSE.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS LOOKING
OUR ORGANIZATION LED BY OUR
AT EACH OF THOSE.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS LOOKING
AN ALTERNATIVE RESPONSE MAY NOT
AT EACH OF THOSE.
EVEN BE NO RESPONSE AT ALL A
AN ALTERNATIVE RESPONSE MAY NOT
CORRESPONDENCE MAY NEED ME THAT
EVEN BE NO RESPONSE AT ALL A
A POLICE OFFICER IS RESPONDING
CORRESPONDENCE MAY NEED ME THAT
WITH A PRACTITIONER TO HELP
A POLICE OFFICER IS RESPONDING
ASSIST A SITUATION BASED ON A
WITH A PRACTITIONER TO HELP
CERTAIN SET OF CRITERIA DANGER
ASSIST A SITUATION BASED ON A
,VIOLENCE, THINGS OF THAT
CERTAIN SET OF CRITERIA DANGER
NATURE.
,VIOLENCE, THINGS OF THAT
ALL OF THOSE THINGS ARE BEING
NATURE.
LOOKED AT.
ALL OF THOSE THINGS ARE BEING
OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR HAS BEEN
LOOKED AT.
TRAVELING ABROAD TO MAKE SURE
OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR HAS BEEN
THAT HE UNDERSTANDS WHAT WE'RE
TRAVELING ABROAD TO MAKE SURE
DOING AND WHAT WE CAN DO FROM
THAT HE UNDERSTANDS WHAT WE'RE
AGENCIES THAT HAVE THAT HAVE A
DOING AND WHAT WE CAN DO FROM
TRACK RECORD WITH EXCELLENCE.
AGENCIES THAT HAVE THAT HAVE A
AND SO HE HAS AN ENTIRE TEAM
TRACK RECORD WITH EXCELLENCE.
PUTTING THINGS TOGETHER.
AND SO HE HAS AN ENTIRE TEAM
WE ARE WORKING ON IT BUT WE
PUTTING THINGS TOGETHER.
WANT TO HAVE A REALLY GOOD
WE ARE WORKING ON IT BUT WE
MODEL.
WANT TO HAVE A REALLY GOOD
OUR CITY COUNCIL EXPECTS US TO
MODEL.
HAVE A GOOD MODEL AND SO DO THE
OUR CITY COUNCIL EXPECTS US TO
CITIZENS.
HAVE A GOOD MODEL AND SO DO THE
SO WE ARE MOVING IN THAT
CITIZENS.
DIRECTION.
SO WE ARE MOVING IN THAT
>> THANK YOU AND WE WOULD
DIRECTION.
APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
>> THANK YOU AND WE WOULD
SIT IN ON SOME TRAINING, SOME
APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
WE HAVE A TRAINING COMMITTEE.
SIT IN ON SOME TRAINING, SOME
YES.
WE HAVE A TRAINING COMMITTEE.
YEAH I DID.
YES.
AND THIS IS WHERE I HAVE TO BE
YEAH I DID.
A LITTLE MORE DIRECT.
AND THIS IS WHERE I HAVE TO BE
SO WHEN WE DESIGN TRAINING IT
A LITTLE MORE DIRECT.
HAS TO BE DESIGNED FOR THE
SO WHEN WE DESIGN TRAINING IT
COMMUNITY AND THE POLICE
HAS TO BE DESIGNED FOR THE
OFFICERS WHEN THE TRAINING IS
COMMUNITY AND THE POLICE
SPECIFIC TO THE POLICE OFFICERS
OFFICERS WHEN THE TRAINING IS
,WE WANT THEM TO BE
SPECIFIC TO THE POLICE OFFICERS
COMFORTABLE BEING ABLE TO
,WE WANT THEM TO BE
DISCUSS POLICE ISSUES AND THEIR
COMFORTABLE BEING ABLE TO
CONCERNS AND SO THAT IS VERY
DISCUSS POLICE ISSUES AND THEIR
DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO COME
CONCERNS AND SO THAT IS VERY
INSIDE THEIR TRAINING BECAUSE
DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO COME
THEY WILL BE OPEN AND WE CAN'T
INSIDE THEIR TRAINING BECAUSE
GET THEM TO GET THE TRAINING.
THEY WILL BE OPEN AND WE CAN'T
SO THAT'S KIND OF A SLOW DOWN
GET THEM TO GET THE TRAINING.
BUT WE DO NEED TO PROVIDE
SO THAT'S KIND OF A SLOW DOWN
TRAINING THAT WE CAN DO
BUT WE DO NEED TO PROVIDE
TOGETHER THAT'S JUST DOWN TRUTH
TRAINING THAT WE CAN DO
OF THE MATTER.
TOGETHER THAT'S JUST DOWN TRUTH
>> THANK YOU.
OF THE MATTER.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
SOMEBODIES.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> SERGEANT KING, I WAS JUST
SOMEBODIES.
GOING TO GIVE YOU THE POLICY
>> SERGEANT KING, I WAS JUST
THAT ONE ZERO ONE ZERO ZERO
GOING TO GIVE YOU THE POLICY
FOUR ONE ZERO ZERO THREE OK, NO
THAT ONE ZERO ONE ZERO ZERO
YEAH.
FOUR ONE ZERO ZERO THREE OK, NO
VERY GOOD.
YEAH.
SO THAT IS THAT IS THE CHAIR
VERY GOOD.
REPORT LONG REPORT TODAY AND WE
SO THAT IS THAT IS THE CHAIR
DID ALL BUSINESS BY REVIEWING
REPORT LONG REPORT TODAY AND WE
THE TWENTY TWENTY THREE ANNUAL
DID ALL BUSINESS BY REVIEWING
REPORT AND AGAIN TAKE A LOOK AT
THE TWENTY TWENTY THREE ANNUAL
IT.
REPORT AND AGAIN TAKE A LOOK AT
I KNOW I BROUGHT I'M SORRY I
IT.
ONLY BROUGHT ONE COPY OF THE
I KNOW I BROUGHT I'M SORRY I
TWENTY TWENTY THREE REPORT FOR
ONLY BROUGHT ONE COPY OF THE
THE NEW COMMISSIONER'S SO YOU
TWENTY TWENTY THREE REPORT FOR
CAN TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT WE CAN
THE NEW COMMISSIONER'S SO YOU
GET YOU ANOTHER ONE THE LIKE
CAN TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT WE CAN
HERE AND THERE TO COMMISSIONER
GET YOU ANOTHER ONE THE LIKE
MANLEY PLEASE WE'LL GET YOU ONE
HERE AND THERE TO COMMISSIONER
OK ALL RIGHT SO I UNDERSTAND
MANLEY PLEASE WE'LL GET YOU ONE
THERE'S NO NEW BUSINESS GOOD.
OK ALL RIGHT SO I UNDERSTAND
WE'RE MOVING ON TO COME TO OUR
THERE'S NO NEW BUSINESS GOOD.
COMMITTEE REPORTS POLICY
WE'RE MOVING ON TO COME TO OUR
COMMITTEE.
COMMITTEE REPORTS POLICY
THANK YOU CHAIR CARTER I HAVE
COMMITTEE.
JUST A BRIEF UPDATE REPORT SO
THANK YOU CHAIR CARTER I HAVE
AS I'VE PROBABLY STATED A FEW
JUST A BRIEF UPDATE REPORT SO
TIMES, I HAD BEEN A COMMITTEE
AS I'VE PROBABLY STATED A FEW
OF ONE FOR A WHILE.
TIMES, I HAD BEEN A COMMITTEE
>> BUT COMMISSIONER LOU JOINED
OF ONE FOR A WHILE.
MY COMMITTEE WHO'S NOT HERE
>> BUT COMMISSIONER LOU JOINED
TONIGHT UNFORTUNATELY AND SHE'S
MY COMMITTEE WHO'S NOT HERE
KIND OF LIT A FIRE UNDER US AND
TONIGHT UNFORTUNATELY AND SHE'S
I'VE BEEN, YOU KNOW, TRYING TO
KIND OF LIT A FIRE UNDER US AND
GET TO SORT OF A PLACE WHERE WE
I'VE BEEN, YOU KNOW, TRYING TO
CAN DO A COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW
GET TO SORT OF A PLACE WHERE WE
SO THAT SERGEANT KING DOESN'T
CAN DO A COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW
HAVE TO, YOU KNOW, COME TO MY
SO THAT SERGEANT KING DOESN'T
HOUSE AND DELIVER NEWS EVERY
HAVE TO, YOU KNOW, COME TO MY
WEEK ABOUT THE BUT ABOUT
HOUSE AND DELIVER NEWS EVERY
POLICIES SO SO WE HAVE GOTTEN
WEEK ABOUT THE BUT ABOUT
STARTED ON THAT CHIEF.
POLICIES SO SO WE HAVE GOTTEN
SHE'S CREATED A TEMPLATE AND
STARTED ON THAT CHIEF.
WE'VE SPLIT IT UP AND WE'RE
SHE'S CREATED A TEMPLATE AND
SORT OF GOING GOING GOING
WE'VE SPLIT IT UP AND WE'RE
THROUGH IT BECAUSE BECAUSE
SORT OF GOING GOING GOING
THERE ARE A LOT THERE ARE A LOT
THROUGH IT BECAUSE BECAUSE
OF THEM AND AND OUR GOAL IS TO
THERE ARE A LOT THERE ARE A LOT
IS TO GO THROUGH ALL OF THEM
OF THEM AND AND OUR GOAL IS TO
AND YOU KNOW, LOOK FOR PLACES
IS TO GO THROUGH ALL OF THEM
EVEN EVEN TYPOS.
AND YOU KNOW, LOOK FOR PLACES
I'M ASSUMING THE DEPARTMENT
EVEN EVEN TYPOS.
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THAT YOU WERE
I'M ASSUMING THE DEPARTMENT
JUST INCONSISTENT LANGUAGE BUT
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THAT YOU WERE
THEN ALSO ACTUAL POTENTIAL
JUST INCONSISTENT LANGUAGE BUT
CONCERNS.
THEN ALSO ACTUAL POTENTIAL
AND SO I'M NOT GIVING YOU ANY
CONCERNS.
TIMELINE ON THAT.
AND SO I'M NOT GIVING YOU ANY
YEAH, BUT BUT WE ARE WE'RE
TIMELINE ON THAT.
WE'RE MOVING FORWARD ON THAT.
YEAH, BUT BUT WE ARE WE'RE
AND COMMISSIONER LEWIS IS A
WE'RE MOVING FORWARD ON THAT.
PRETTY DEDICATED TO KEEPING ME
AND COMMISSIONER LEWIS IS A
ON TASK ON THIS ONE.
PRETTY DEDICATED TO KEEPING ME
SO SOME MORE ON THAT LATER AND
ON TASK ON THIS ONE.
THEN THE OTHER THING AND
SO SOME MORE ON THAT LATER AND
JAKARTA OF COURSE MENTION THIS
THEN THE OTHER THING AND
AND WE'VE WE TALKED ABOUT IT IN
JAKARTA OF COURSE MENTION THIS
AT OUR LAST MEETING IN NOVEMBER
AND WE'VE WE TALKED ABOUT IT IN
THAT WE HAVE BEEN DOING A
AT OUR LAST MEETING IN NOVEMBER
LITTLE BACK AND FORTH ON THIS
THAT WE HAVE BEEN DOING A
REDACTION POLICY WITH THE
LITTLE BACK AND FORTH ON THIS
DEPARTMENT AND THEY GAVE US
REDACTION POLICY WITH THE
THEIR LAST REVISION EXCUSE ME
DEPARTMENT AND THEY GAVE US
IN NOVEMBER AND BECAUSE WE'VE
THEIR LAST REVISION EXCUSE ME
KIND OF BEEN ON RECESS.
IN NOVEMBER AND BECAUSE WE'VE
SO TOCCATA I JUST GOT TOGETHER
KIND OF BEEN ON RECESS.
THIS WEEK AND HAVE HAVE MADE A
SO TOCCATA I JUST GOT TOGETHER
RESPONSE TO THAT IN THE FORM
THIS WEEK AND HAVE HAVE MADE A
OF OF A OF A NEW REVISION WHICH
RESPONSE TO THAT IN THE FORM
I THINK YOU JUST GOT IN THE
OF OF A OF A NEW REVISION WHICH
PACKET TODAY.
I THINK YOU JUST GOT IN THE
I WAS HOPING YOU'D GET IT
PACKET TODAY.
EARLIER THAN THAT.
I WAS HOPING YOU'D GET IT
SO I'M NOT SURE HOW MUCH WE CAN
EARLIER THAN THAT.
ACTUALLY DISCUSS IT HERE IN
SO I'M NOT SURE HOW MUCH WE CAN
SESSION.
ACTUALLY DISCUSS IT HERE IN
IT'S THE ONE THAT'S GOT DRAFT
SESSION.
WRITTEN ON EACH SIDE OF IT.
IT'S THE ONE THAT'S GOT DRAFT
SO I MEAN IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING
WRITTEN ON EACH SIDE OF IT.
TO MENTION RIGHT NOW WE CAN GO
SO I MEAN IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING
AHEAD AND DO THAT.
TO MENTION RIGHT NOW WE CAN GO
OTHERWISE I'LL JUST IF ANYBODY
AHEAD AND DO THAT.
HAS SOMETHING TO OFFER YOU CAN
OTHERWISE I'LL JUST IF ANYBODY
SEND YOU CAN JUST SEND ME AN
HAS SOMETHING TO OFFER YOU CAN
EMAIL OR CALL OR OR TALK TO
SEND YOU CAN JUST SEND ME AN
WHAT THE COMMISSIONER LEW OR OR
EMAIL OR CALL OR OR TALK TO
ED CARTER WE CAN'T YOU KNOW, DO
WHAT THE COMMISSIONER LEW OR OR
DO A DISCUSSION LIKE THAT BY
ED CARTER WE CAN'T YOU KNOW, DO
EMAIL AND YOU KNOW, DUE TO THE
DO A DISCUSSION LIKE THAT BY
OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
EMAIL AND YOU KNOW, DUE TO THE
BUT WE CAN HAVE SOME ONE ON ONE
OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THAT AND THEN
BUT WE CAN HAVE SOME ONE ON ONE
MAYBE TAKE IT UP NEXT NEXT
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THAT AND THEN
MONTH.
MAYBE TAKE IT UP NEXT NEXT
BUT I WOULD LIKE YOU KNOW, WE'D
MONTH.
ALL LIKE TO HAVE FEEDBACK FROM
BUT I WOULD LIKE YOU KNOW, WE'D
THE ENTIRE COMMISSION ON THIS
ALL LIKE TO HAVE FEEDBACK FROM
BEFORE WE PROVIDE A DRAFT PICK.
THE ENTIRE COMMISSION ON THIS
YOU KNOW, THERE IS THIS ISSUE
BEFORE WE PROVIDE A DRAFT PICK.
OF EVERY TIME JIMMY CARTER
YOU KNOW, THERE IS THIS ISSUE
TALKS ABOUT THAT SHE MAKES AN
OF EVERY TIME JIMMY CARTER
EVEN MORE COMPELLING ARGUMENT.
TALKS ABOUT THAT SHE MAKES AN
I JUST DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A
EVEN MORE COMPELLING ARGUMENT.
LEGALLY FEASIBLE ONE BUT I'M
I JUST DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A
NOT SURE HOW I GET PAST JUST
LEGALLY FEASIBLE ONE BUT I'M
THE IDEA THAT YEAH, WE'RE WE'RE
NOT SURE HOW I GET PAST JUST
A CREATURE OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
THE IDEA THAT YEAH, WE'RE WE'RE
THE CITY COUNCIL IS SUBJECT TO
A CREATURE OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
A FEW SO I'M NOT SURE HOW WE
THE CITY COUNCIL IS SUBJECT TO
COULD ARGUE THAT WE'RE NOT.
A FEW SO I'M NOT SURE HOW WE
BUT THIS WHAT YOU SAID JUST NOW
COULD ARGUE THAT WE'RE NOT.
A LITTLE BIT AGO IN SESSION IS
BUT THIS WHAT YOU SAID JUST NOW
THE MOST AS I SAY, THE MOST
A LITTLE BIT AGO IN SESSION IS
COMPELLING CASE I'VE HEARD SO
THE MOST AS I SAY, THE MOST
FAR.
COMPELLING CASE I'VE HEARD SO
SO MAYBE MAYBE YOU'VE GOT
FAR.
SOMETHING GOING.
SO MAYBE MAYBE YOU'VE GOT
SO THERE'S THERE'S STILL A
SOMETHING GOING.
LITTLE PUSH PULL ON THAT EVEN
SO THERE'S THERE'S STILL A
IN THIS LATEST DRAFT.
LITTLE PUSH PULL ON THAT EVEN
SO WE'LL SEE WHERE THAT GOES.
IN THIS LATEST DRAFT.
BUT I THINK WE'RE
MAKING
PROGRESS.
WE'RE TRYING I MEAN THIS ONE
WE'RE JUST TRYING TO STREAMLINE
AND STILL FIGHTING FOR A LITTLE
BIT MORE TRANSPARENCY TO THE
EXTENT THAT WE CAN GIVE IT.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S THAT'S ONE OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS IS ONGOING.
WE'LL BE WORKING ON IT.
REDACTION POLICY ITSELF.
IT'S IMPORTANT TRAINING
COMMITTEE AND I KNOW
COMMISSIONER HANGE YOU PROBABLY
DON'T HAVE ANY REPORTER
TRAINING MAYBE YOU DO BUT I AM
ALSO GOING TO ASK YOU YOU HAD
MENTIONED A PROGRAM TO ME LAST
YEAR.
YES.
SO FIRST ON THE TRAINING.
SURE.
I APPRECIATE IT, CHIEF
ANDERSON, WHAT YOU SAID ABOUT
HAVING A PERSON SITTING IN ON
THE POLICE TRAINING WHEN IT IS
ACTUALLY HAPPENING AND HOW THAT
MIGHT STIFLE WHAT THE OFFICERS
ARE ACTUALLY HEARING WILL NOT
SO MUCH HEARING BUT BUT BEING
ABLE TO ASK AND REALLY
ENGAGING.
SO I GET THAT.
BUT IS THERE A WAY THAT YOU
SENT AN EMAIL IN DECEMBER AND
OUTLINED VARIOUS TRAINING
SUBJECTS THAT WE COULD LOOK AT
AND THERE ARE TWO OR THREE THAT
I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
WONDERING IF WE COULD JUST SIT
WITH YOU OR SIT WITH SOME
OF THE OFFICERS AND JUST TALK
ABOUT HOW THE TRAINING WHAT IS
INCLUDED IN THE TRAINING, HOW
THE TRAINING HAPPENS SO THAT WE
HAVE A BETTER IDEA OF WHAT THE
TRAINING IS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE COULD SET UP SOME TIME FOR
YOU TO COME AND TALK ABOUT WHAT
THE TRAINING WE COULD WE CAN
ACTUALLY GO OVER THE TRAINING
BUT I THINK I THINK WE SHOULD
DO MORE THAN THAT.
I THINK THAT THAT TEAM OF YOU
SHOULD COME IN AND TALK TO OUR
POLICE OFFICERS AND JUST ENGAGE
IN JUST A REGULAR CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHAT WE'RE DOING IN THE
COMMUNITY.
I THINK THAT THE POLICE
OFFICERS SHOULD HEAR FROM YOU.
I THINK BY SITTING DOWN AND
HAVING A ROUNDTABLE AND I DON'T
CALL IT TRAINING BUT IT IS BUT
I CALL IT JUST BEING REAL
BECAUSE THE POLICE OFFICERS
NEED TO JUST BE ABLE TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION AND SO THAT IS
SOMEWHAT A FORM OF TRAINING AS
WELL.
BUT TO PROVIDE AN OVERVIEW
OF THE TRAINING THAT WE HAVE,
WE CAN ABSOLUTELY DO THAT.
WE HAVE EVERYTHING IN PLACE SO
YOU GOT TO DO IS LET ME KNOW
WHEN WE WANT IT WHEN YOU NEED
TO DO IT.
RIGHT NOW WE'RE TAKING THE
ENTIRE DEPARTMENT THROUGH THE
TRAINING SO BUT BUT WE CAN DO
IT AND THERE'S ONE OTHER THING
I FORGOT TO MENTION OVER THE
LAST YEAR I'VE BEEN HERE FOR
ABOUT A YEAR NOW AND WE'VE
REVAMPED OVER TWO HUNDRED
POLICIES IN A DEPARTMENT SO WE
HAVE REALLY BEEN CHANGING A LOT
AND THE ORGANIZATION AND CHANGE
IS SOMETIMES TOUGH BUT I HAVE
TO SAY THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THE POLICE
LEADERSHIP IS DOING A REALLY
GOOD JOB BUT I WOULD LOVE FOR
YOU ALL TO COME AND JUST TALK
TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
GET COME INTO IT.
WE WILL BRING YOU INTO OUR
SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM MEETING.
YOU CAN COME IN AND YOU CAN
TALK TO US WHILE TRAINING ANY
TIME YOU ARE.
>> ALL WE NEED IS WHEN AND AND
AND WE'LL SHOW UP.
>> LET ME JUST SHARE SOMETHING
THAT COMMISSIONER HAHN SHARED
WITH ME A COUPLE OF YEARS GO
SOME YEARS AGO SHE WAS AT A
LOSS LIKE CITIZENS.
WHAT DO YOU THINK WHAT DO THEY
CALL IT WAS A TRAINING AND I
CAN'T REMEMBER EXACTLY WHAT THE
NAME OF IT WAS BUT IT WAS A
SERIES OF OF TRAININGS THAT
SOME OF US THAT WERE ON THE
TASK FORCE WERE INVOLVED IN AND
THIS PARTICULAR ONE I WAS IN A
ROOM WITH OFFICERS AND
POTENTIAL OFFICERS AND THEY
WERE SHOWING A VIDEO AND I TOOK
EXCEPTION TO THAT VIDEO BECAUSE
THERE WERE FIVE OR SIX
INCIDENCES THAT WERE THAT WERE
SHOWN AND THE PERPETRATORS WERE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN MEN AND AND
THE WAY IN WHICH THE POLICE
OFFICERS RESPONDED TO THAT TO
THAT INCIDENT BOTHERED ME
GREATLY.
SO OUT OF FIVE FOUR OF THEM
WERE AFRICAN-AMERICAN MEN.
ONE OF THEM WAS A WHITE MALE
AND IT WAS VERY OBVIOUS THAT
THEY WERE TREATED DIFFERENT.
MY OBJECTION TO IT WAS I SAT IN
A ROOM WITH TWENTY FIVE OTHER
PEOPLE.
I WAS ONE OF TWO BLACK PEOPLE
SITTING THERE IN THIS ROOM AND
I'M LOOKING AT ALL OF THESE
WHITE MEN AND WOMEN LOOKING AT
THIS VIDEO AND INTERNALIZING
THAT BLACK FOLKS ARE THE ONES
THAT COMMIT CRIMES AND WHITE
FOLKS DO NOT.
THAT WAS WHAT I TOOK FROM IT SO
IT SAID TO ME THAT IF THIS WAS
THE TRAINING VIDEO THAT WAS
USED AND THEN WHEN I QUESTIONED
IT THE AND THE RESPONSE THAT I
GOT WAS THIS IS THE ONLY VIDEO
THAT IS OUT THERE OR THIS IS A
VIDEO THAT HAS BEEN PROVIDED
KNOW AND I REALLY TOOK
EXCEPTION TO THAT.
I COULDN'T UNDERSTAND WHY THAT
WAS SUCH SO I TOOK IT I SAT IN
ON A SEMINAR WITH NACOLE IN
DECEMBER AND THIS IS WHAT YOU
WHAT I HAD MENTIONED TO YOU AND
SOMETHING VERY SIMILAR CAME UP
AND I ASKED THAT QUESTION AND I
WAS TOLD THAT THERE ARE ALL
KINDS OF VIDEOS THAT ARE
AVAILABLE TO POLICE DEPARTMENTS
.
>> THEY SIMPLY NEED TO ASK FOR
THE ONES THAT THEY WANT BUT
THAT THE ANSWER THAT I GOT AND
GRANTED THIS WAS FOUR YEARS AGO
NOW FIVE YEARS AGO I'M MAKING
THE ASSUMPTION THAT THINGS HAVE
CHANGED AND THAT THERE ARE
DIFFERENT VIDEOS OR DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT ARE USED IN
TRAINING FOR POLICE OFFICERS.
YEAH, YOU KNOW, I'VE BEEN IN
LAW ENFORCEMENT FOR THIRTY
SEVEN YEARS.
I'VE SEEN SOME OF THE VIDEOS
MYSELF MANY TIMES AND DIDN'T
LIKE WHAT I SAW SO I THINK THE
ANSWER TO THAT IS THAT IT IS
GOOD FOR YOU TO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SEE WHERE WE'RE
PROVIDING TRAINING BECAUSE
SOMETIMES THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
EVEN THOUGH WE TRY TO DO
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE PROVIDING A PROPER
PERSPECTIVE TO THE COMMUNITY,
SOMETIMES WE MISS IT AND IN AND
THERE ARE TIMES WHEN POLICE
DEPARTMENTS DO IT ON PURPOSE.
I SHOULD I WOULD HOPE THAT AND
HARBORS INTENTIONS ARE NOT TO
DO THAT AND I HAVEN'T SEEN
THAT.
BUT WHEN YOU HAVE OTHER PEOPLE
LIKE YOURSELF THAT CAN TAKE A
LOOK AT THINGS THAT'S IMPORTANT
.
BUT HERE'S SOMETHING THAT I
THOUGHT ABOUT AS YOU SAID THIS
WHICH RESONATED IS THAT YOU GOT
IN THE ROOM AND YOU WERE IN
THIS SPACE AND THAT'S IMPORTANT
AND I I WOULD IMAGINE WHAT I
KNOW ABOUT YOU WITH YOUR
TEMPERAMENT EVEN THOUGH IT
BOTHERS YOU, YOU WERE LIKELY TO
DO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE THING IS TO HAVE THE
COURAGE TO TELL PEOPLE YOU
DIDN'T LIKE WHAT YOU SAW AND
THAT'S WHAT WE NEED.
THE OTHER THING IS TO BE ABLE
TO COMMUNICATE THAT IN A WAY
THAT IT CAN BE SALVAGEABLE FOR
THE EMPLOYEES BECAUSE THAT IS
TRAINING BECAUSE BRINGING YOU
INTO A SETTING WHERE YOU CAN
SEE THINGS AND TALK TO US ABOUT
THE ISSUES WE HAVE ARE
IMPORTANT.
SO HERE'S MY CHALLENGE BECAUSE
YOU HAVE TRAINING, YOU HAVE
TRAINING.
MY CHALLENGES IS THAT YOU
IDENTIFY SOME OF THE FOLKS HERE
ON YOUR TEAM AND YOU DECIDE
WHEN YOU WANT TO COME AND SIT
DOWN AND WE HAVE A ROUNDTABLE
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE THINGS
THAT YOU FEEL ARE IMPACTING OUR
COMMUNITY AND WE HAVE A
CONVERSATION.
BUT AS PART OF THAT
CONVERSATION WE HAVE TO ALLOW
FOR PEOPLE TO BE OPEN BECAUSE
SOMETIMES POLICE OFFICERS MAY
SAY THINGS THAT COULD OFFEND
BECAUSE THEY MAY NOT UNDERSTAND
OR THEY MAY HAVE THE UPBRINGING
WE HAVE AND IT'S SOMETIMES
THERE IN A BAR OR SITUATION.
BUT WHAT IT DOES IS IT GIVES US
THE HANDLES AND OPPORTUNITIES
TO IDENTIFY POLICE OFFICERS.
THEY HAVE CONCERNS AND THEN WE
CAN WORK ON THEIR CONCERNS IN
ORDER TO ADDRESS THEM.
WE HAVE TO BE ABLE TO BE OPEN.
SO THAT IS PART OF THE REASON
WHY WE TALKED ABOUT BRINGING
POLICE OFFICERS INTO SOME
OF OUR TRAINING.
I TALKED TO THE POLICE OFFICERS
ABOUT RACE A LOT AND IT REALLY
TAKES TIME TO GET THEM
COMFORTABLE TO TALK ABOUT RACE.
BUT IF THEY THINK THEY'RE GOING
TO TALK ABOUT IT AND IN THE
COMMUNITY AND MAINLY THE
COMMISSION IS GOING TO GO OUT
AND COMMUNICATE WHAT THEY SAID
TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC THEY
WON'T DO IT BECAUSE IT'LL HAVE
AN IMPACT ON THEIR CAREER,
THEIR LIVELIHOOD IN CARVE OUT A
RESPONSE THAT IS EXTREMELY
NEGATIVE TO THEM.
SO WE HAVE TO REALLY DO THINGS
IN A VERY JUDICIOUS, CAREFUL
BUT RESPECTFUL WAY AND YOU HAVE
THE RIGHT NUCLEASE ON THIS TEAM
BECAUSE YOU CARE YOU HAVE
EXPERIENCE TO HELP CARVE OUR
RELATIONSHIPS BECAUSE THE
POLICE OFFICERS DO NEED TO
LEARN FROM YOU SO YOU IDENTIFY
THOSE FOLKS WE'RE READY.
YOU KNOW OUR RECOMMENDATION THE
RECOMMENDATION FOR TRAINING WAS
IN THE AREAS OF DSCOVR AND
DEALING WITH PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES AND WE'RE GOING TO
ADD IN MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES,
COMMUNICATION WITH THE PUBLIC
AND CULTURAL SENSITIVITY TO
RELATE TO DIVERSE POPULATION.
SO THOSE ARE REALLY AND I DON'T
WANT TO SPEAK FOR THE COMMITTEE
BUT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
FOR TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT'S
THE KIND OF TRAINING THAT OUR
OFFICERS ARE RECEIVING.
>> YES,
I WOULD AGREE WITH YOU.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
YOU ANYTHING ELSE, COMMISSIONER
HAYNES?
NO.
OK, THANK YOU.
OUTREACH COMMITTEE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I JUST HAVE A FEW THINGS TO
COVER TONIGHT.
NO ONE, PLEASE EXPECT AND BE ON
THE LOOKOUT FOR A FEW EMAILS
FROM ME OR IF SHOULD THEY COME
FROM MISS CUMMINGS OR SHOULD OK
JUST BE AWARE SO THE FIRST
OF WHICH I'M GOING TO SEND OUT
IS LAST YEAR AT OUR LAST
MEETING I TALKED ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, HAVING MORE OF A SOCIAL
MEDIA PRESENCE AND DOING
PROFILES, YOU KNOW, BRIEF
PROFILES OF EACH OF US SO THAT
THE COMMUNITY COULD GET TO KNOW
THE COMMISSIONERS AND EVERYONE
WHO WORKS ON THE COMMISSION.
SO BASICALLY I'M GOING TO SEND
AN EMAIL WITH A QUESTION FOR
YOU TO ANSWER.
>> BROADLY SPEAKING, IT'S GOING
TO BE YOU KNOW, WHAT IS YOUR
WHY WHY ARE YOU HERE?
WHY ARE YOU SERVING YOU KNOW,
ANYTHING ABOUT YOURSELF THAT
YOU FEEL LIKE SPEAKS TO WHY
YOU'RE ON THIS COMMISSION AND
THEN I'M ALSO GOING TO ASK YOU
TO SEND ME A HEADSHOT OR A
PHOTO.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE A
HEADSHOT.
>> IT COULD BE YOU WITH YOUR
FAMILY WHATEVER YOU WANT TO
SHARE MORE PERSONALLY.
>> THEN EACH WEEK WE WILL
PROFILE ANOTHER COMMISSIONER.
SO IF ANYONE FEELS
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THAT IN ANY
WAY, JUST LET ME KNOW AND WE
CAN WORK SOMETHING OUT.
IT'S NOT IT'S NOT A BIG DEAL IF
YOU'RE NOT COMFORTABLE BUT
HOPEFULLY YOU ARE AND I'M
EXCITED TO LEARN MORE ABOUT ALL
OF YOU SO BE ON THE LOOKOUT.
>> SECONDLY, ON BEEN DOING SOME
WORK TO GET THE JUDE WALTEN
SOCIAL JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM
TOGETHER YOU WILL GET AN EMAIL
ON THIS.
I WANTED TO KIND OF GET MY
THOUGHTS TOGETHER BEFORE I
STARTED ENGAGING EVERYBODY
BECAUSE I DIDN'T WANT TO WASTE
YOUR TIME.
>> SO RIGHT NOW I HAVE REACHED
OUT TO MALIK'S CREEK TO USE
THEIR PROGRAM ROOM WHICH IS A
VERY NICE LARGE ROOM IF IT'S I
BELIEVE NINETY PEOPLE AND YOU
KNOW THERE'S WINDOWS AND IT'S A
NICE SETTING AND IT'S ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF TOWN FROM WHERE
WE HAD OUR LAST PUBLIC FORUM SO
AND THERE'S PARKING AND IT'S ON
THE BUS LINE WE DON'T HAVE TO
HAVE IT THERE BUT I WANTED TO
GET SOMETHING ON THE BOOKS, GET
SOMETHING RESERVED AND IT'S THE
PRICE IS RIGHT LET'S JUST PUT
IT THAT WAY.
SO IF ANYBODY HAS ANOTHER
SUGGESTION OR FEELS STRONGLY
ABOUT A PLACE TO HOLDS THIS
SYMPOSIUM, PLEASE LET ME KNOW
AGAIN.
I WILL SEND OUT AN EMAIL WITH
SOME OF THIS INFORMATION YOU
GUYS CAN RESPOND TO IT.
I ORIGINALLY WANTED APRIL.
I'VE PUSHED IT TO ME BECAUSE I
HAVE SOME TRAVEL FOR WORK IN
APRIL AND I JUST WANT TO BE
ABLE TO BE PRESENT ESPECIALLY
IN THE FINAL HOURS
OF ORGANIZING AND I'M GOING TO
BE FLOATING SOME IDEAS AND SOME
NAMES OF SPEAKERS AND I WOULD
LIKE SUGGESTIONS FROM ALL
OF YOU AS WELL CONSIDERING TIME
WISE TO TO WORK WITH ROUGHLY
FOUR SPEAKERS THREE TO FOUR AND
THEN QUESTION AND ANSWER AND
DISCUSSION PANEL DISCUSSION
FOLLOWING INDIVIDUAL
PRESENTATIONS AGAIN, LET ME
KNOW IF YOUR FEEDBACK WE'VE
RECENTLY BEEN CONTACTED AFTER
THE LAST MEETING WE WERE
CONTACTED BY A REPORTER FROM IS
IT WAS ANALYZED HIS EMAIL FROM
LIVE WANTING TO DO A STORY ON
THE SYMPOSIUM.
I AGREED I ALSO INDICATED THAT
I WOULD APPRECIATE SHE REACH
OUT TO OTHER COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
OUR COMMISSION MEMBERS TO GET
INPUT AND QUOTES AND MY MAIN
REASON BEING, YOU KNOW, I KIND
OF PITCHED THIS IDEA AND I'M
OUTREACH.
SO I'M I'M ORGANIZING.
BUT IT'S THE COMMISSION'S
SYMPOSIUM.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS ALL OF US AND
IDEALLY WE WANT THIS TO LONG
OUTLIVE ANY ONE OF OUR
COMMISSIONS.
SO YOU KNOW, JUST TO KIND
OF SET THE MESSAGE THAT THIS IS
A COMMISSION SPONSORED EVENT
AND WE HOPE TO HAVE IT EVERY
YEAR SO I'M WAITING TO HEAR
BACK FROM THE FROM THE
REPORTER.
BUT YOU MAY BE CONTACTED BY HER
AS WELL.
>> SO IF YOU FEEL UP TO GIVING
A COMMENT, PLEASE PLEASE DO I
THINK RIGHT NOW THAT'S IT.
I WOULD ALSO SAY FOR YOU FOLKS
THE EVENTS THAT YOU HAVE FOR
COMMUNITY AND COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT CONTACT ME IF YOU
FEEL LIKE OUR OUTREACH TEAM
COULD BE HELPFUL IN ANY WAY OR
IF HAVING A JOINT EVENT AT ANY
POINT WOULD HELP FACILITATE
YOUR OUTREACH GOALS ESPECIALLY
WITH THE SCHOOLS.
I THINK YOU KNOW THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WE ALL
WANT TO SEE MORE INVOLVEMENT IN
SO YEAH.
SO THAT'S IT.
PLEASE STAY TUNED AND I WILL BE
REACHING OUT WITHIN THE COMING
DAYS.
>> THANKS A LOT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER FRANCIS, HAS A
DATE BEEN SET FOR ME OR NOT?
>> I'VE REQUESTED THREE.
I'M JUST TO BOOK THE ROOMS AND
IT'S ESSENTIALLY WHATEVER THE
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD
THURSDAYS ARE OF MAY.
HOWEVER THAT'S SOMETHING I WANT
TO GET FEEDBACK ON AVAILABILITY
WITHIN THAT MONTH FOR EVERYBODY
AND THEN I THINK WE'RE FAR
ENOUGH OUT THAT WE COULD EASILY
ADJUST WITH THE LIBRARY IF NEED
BE SO I'LL SEND YOU KNOW WE
COULD DO A DOODLE POLL OR
SOMETHING JUST TO GET A VIBE
FOR WHAT DAY OF THE WEEK AND
THEN WHAT WEEK?
>> GOOD.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND I DO HOPE
THAT AT LEAST ONE OF OUR NEW
COMMISSIONERS WILL WANT TO WORK
ALONG WITH ON THIS ON THIS
PROJECT AND AND ALONG ON THAT
COMMITTEE.
I'M SURE I'M JUST KIND
OF CURIOUS WHAT TYPE OF THINGS
MIGHT BE COVERED UP THIS SEARCH
FOR JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM.
>> GREAT QUESTION.
THAT'S WHAT I WANT SOME
FEEDBACK ON.
HOWEVER, SOME INITIAL IDEAS
THAT I'VE HAD FOR YOU KNOW,
WHEN THINKING ABOUT POTENTIAL
SPEAKERS IDEALLY FOLKS FROM
DIVERSE BACKGROUNDS OF WORK.
>> SO POSSIBLY SOME FOLKS IN
RESEARCH YOU KNOW, AT THE
UNIVERSITY, SOME FOLKS WHO WORK
IN THE COMMUNITY IN DIFFERENT
YOU KNOW, ALL SORTS
OF DIFFERENT PUBLIC FACING
PROFESSIONS.
>> I THINK, YOU KNOW, MY
INITIAL THOUGHTS ON THIS YOU
KNOW, THERE'S A PART OF ME
LEANS TOWARDS WOW, IT'S SUCH A
IT'S SUCH A CRAZY TIME IN THIS
COUNTRY.
THERE'S SO MUCH TO TALK ABOUT.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT MAKES SENSE.
YOU KNOW, I THINK I TRY TO KIND
OF FOLLOW IF IT'S NAMED FOR JUD
.
YOU KNOW, SHE SHE WAS A BRITISH
CITIZEN.
SHE DIDN'T VOTE.
>> SHE JUST SORT OF ACTED
TOWARDS DECENCY AND WHAT MADE
SENSE AND WHAT WAS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO AND WASN'T STUPID.
>> SO I KIND OF FEEL LIKE I
WOULD LOVE FOR THIS NOT TO BE A
POLITICAL SYMPOSIUM.
>> I THINK IN GENERAL WE CAN
POSE AN OVERALL SEARCHING
QUESTION THAT WOULD BE THE
THEME AND THEN FOLKS FROM
DIFFERENT BACKGROUNDS ADDRESS
HOW THEY INCORPORATE THAT THEME
INTO THE WORK THAT THEY DO AND
INITIATIVES THAT THEY'RE
CURRENTLY WORKING ON.
SO IDEALLY I GUESS THE WAY I
WAS LOOKING AT IS, YOU KNOW,
MAYBE SOMEBODY WHO WORKS IN
HOUSING SOMEBODY SOMEBODY WHO
WORKS WITH YOUTH, SOMEBODY WHO
WORKS WITH OLDER ADULTS BUT YOU
KNOW, DIFFERENT SECTORS
OF POPULATIONS, VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND TOUGH ISSUES.
THE IDEA OF THIS IS TO TALK
ABOUT REALLY HARD CONVERSATIONS
AND HARD TOPICS THAT I THINK
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE IT'S REALLY
EASY TO KIND OF SHY AWAY FROM
OR SAY YOU CAN'T SAY THAT.
DON'T SAY THIS.
DON'T ASK THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT'S WHEN SYSTEMS
FAIL BECAUSE WE'RE JUST NOT
ADDRESSING THE PROBLEMS AND I
THINK IN A LOT CASES WE HAVE
GOALS FOR EACH OF THESE SECTORS
THAT SOMETIMES CONFLICT WITH
HOW WE EXECUTE THEM AND THOSE
ARE THE PROBLEMS WE NEED TO
SOLVE RATHER THAN AVOID.
SO I'M HOPING WE CAN KIND TOUCH
ON SOME OF THE MORE GRAY AREAS
AND TRICKY STUFF IN A SAFE
SPACE TO DO SO.
BUT YEAH, THAT'S BY AND LARGE
WHAT I HAD IN MIND RIGHT NOW
I'M SORT OF COMBING THROUGH THE
DIFFERENT CONFERENCES AND
NATIONAL MEETINGS FOR SOCIAL
JUSTICE AND LOOKING AT THEIR
AGENDAS AND YOU KNOW, WHAT ARE
THE WHAT'S THE OVERARCHING
THEME OF THESE MEETINGS TO GET
A SENSE FOR OK, WHAT COULD BE A
GOOD
ORGANIZING PRINCIPLE AND
THEN TALK TO FOLKS YOU IN OUR
COMMUNITY WHO MIGHT BE
ADDRESSING THIS ISSUE HEAD ON.
>> SO YEAH, AND WHEN I REACH
OUT I'M GOING TO KIND OF LIST
SOME TOPICS THAT I'VE SEEN THAT
ARE OF INTEREST.
MAYBE WE CAN VOTE ON THEM.
>> MAYBE YOU GUYS CAN PROVIDE
OTHER TOPICS BUT IDEALLY EACH
INDIVIDUAL PRESENTS THEIR OWN
WORK A PROJECT THEY'RE WORKING
ON EXPERIENCES THAT THEY'VE OUT
ON THE JOB THAT HAVE INFORMED
THE WAY THAT THEY APPROACH
THEIR WORK AND THEN AFTERWARDS
EACH SPEAKER SITS DOWN TOGETHER
AND WE WOULD HAVE A MODERATOR
ASK A FEW QUESTIONS MORE GEARED
TOWARDS THAT THAT MAIN TOPIC.
AND I WAS ACTUALLY HOPING THAT
CHAIR CARTER WOULD MODERATE OH
YEAH.
>> THANK YOU.
SECOND SO THAT'S SORT OF HOW I
ENVISION AND THEN OPEN IT UP TO
THE AUDIENCE FOR QUESTIONS FOR
THE FOR ALL THE SPEAKERS.
SO YEAH I'M LOOKING FOR JUST A
VARIETY OF PEOPLE WHO ARE DOING
GOOD HARD WORK IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> IT SOUNDS EXCITING.
WE DO HAVE A SMALL BUDGET IF
THERE ARE STIPENDS OR SOMETHING
YOU KNOW THAT HONORARIA OR
WHATEVER WE CAN POSSIBLY WORK
BETTER JUST THROWING THAT OUT
THERE YOU THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, BUT NOW WHAT WE NEED TO DO
THE IDEA CAME UP AT THE LAST
MEETING AND WE TALKED ABOUT IT.
THAT WAS A GOOD IDEA AND NOW WE
NEED TO VOTE.
SO FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO MAY BE
NEW JUDE WALTON WAS ONE OF THE
INITIAL MEMBERS ON XPAC VERY
ACTIVE, WONDERFUL WOMAN AND SHE
WAS MURDERED A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO AND SO WE WANT TO PROMOTE
WHAT WE SAY IT THE FIRST SOCIAL
SAID IN APRIL THAT WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE TO A
WELL LET ME SEE
LET ME SEE WHAT WE DO FIRST AND
OK IN THE NEXT THE RIGHT WITHIN
WHAT'S THE NAME IT WASN'T VOTED
ON.
IT WAS THE FIRST SOCIAL JUSTICE
BUT IT IS GOING TO BE THE JUDE
WALTON SOCIAL JUSTICE SOCIAL
JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM ANNUAL
SYMPOSIUM AFTER FORMER SO IT IS
BEJEWELED SOCIAL OK BUT WE'RE
GOING TO DO IT AGAIN ANYWAY AND
AND I'D LIKE TO GO AHEAD AND
SEE YOU AT THIS POINT I THINK
MAY IS GOOD.
>> WE GOT PLENTY OF TIME.
YEAH.
THE ORIGINAL MOTION WAS FOR
APRIL SO CAN I HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO FORMALLY NAME THE
JUDE WALTON ANNUAL?
>> WELL THIS WOULD BE AND THIS
WOULD BE THE FIRST GAME THE
JUDE WALTON ANNUALS FOR SOCIAL
JUSTICE AND NOT AT ALL YOU KNOW
OK BUT THE NAME OF IT THIS WILL
BE THE INAUGURAL BUT THE NAME
OF IT IS GOING TO BE THE THE
JUDE WALTON.
SO SOCIAL JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM I
ASSUME TO BE HELD THIS YEAR IN
MAY AND TO AUTHORIZE THE
COMMUNICATIONS COMMITTEE TO
PROCEED WITH ALL NECESSARY
PREPARATION.
>> I ASSUME THAT'S ABOUT WHAT I
SAY COMMUNICATIONS OUTREACH
COMMITTEE.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU SO WE'VE GOT WE'VE
GOT A MOTION AND A SECOND ANY
DISCUSSION, MADAM CHAIR?
YES.
IF I COULD JUST ASK OBVIOUSLY
AS A REPRESENTATIVE ON THAT,
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY I'LL BE
INVOLVED BUT WE ENGAGE OUR
STAFF IS VERY SENSITIVE
OBVIOUSLY TO OUR STAFF.
SO I'M SURE THERE MAY BE
MEMBERS OF STAFF WHO MAY WANT
TO AT LEAST BE SOME SORT
OF PART OF TWO VERY GOOD.
>> VERY GOOD.
WE WE WOULD APPRECIATE ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SIGNIFY BY SAYING I HAVE ANY
OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES
UNANIMOUSLY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND THANK
YOU TO THAT TO OUR OUTREACH
COMMITTEE NOW THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS REPORT.
THANK YOU MADAM CHAIR.
THERE ARE A FEW THINGS TO
REPORT.
ONE IS WE HAVE THIS YEAR MANY
OF THE COMPLAINTS THAT WERE
DELIVERED TO US CAME THROUGH
ECHO PARK I THINK WE HAVE ABOUT
PROBABLY TWENTY EIGHT
COMPLAINTS IN ADDITION TO WHAT
THE FILING DIRECTLY WITH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT, MOST
OF THOSE COMPLAINTS WERE
REVIEWED.
THERE ARE A FEW THAT STILL WE
NEED TO WORK WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO COME TO A
CONCLUSION AND THOSE WOULD BE
PROBABLY HAPPENING IN THE
COMING FEW WEEKS.
THE OTHER THING IS WHAT WE NEED
IS PROBABLY UPDATE THE FORM
THAT WE USE FOR REVIEW BECAUSE
IT HAS BEEN THERE FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS AND SOMETIMES WITH THE
NEW INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE WE
MIGHT JUST STREAMLINE THAT TO
BE AN EASY FORM TO GENERATE AND
WE DON'T HAVE TO WHEN WE
RECEIVE THE INFORMATION FROM
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT WE DON'T
HAVE TO GO THROUGH BACK AND
FORTH TO THE REPORT AND COPY
AND PASTE IF WE HAVE THEM
STREAMLINE AS THE REPORT FROM
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT THAT
WOULD MAKE IT EASIER AND ALSO
SAVE SOME TIME WHEN WE REVIEW
THE COMPLAINTS AND I WILL
PROBABLY BE WORKING ON THE FORM
AND I'LL BE PRESENTING IT NEXT
MONTH FOR APPROVAL.
AND THE OTHER THING IS I DID
ASSIGN SOME COMMISSIONERS TO DO
REVIEW AND FOR WHATEVER REASON
I DID NOT SEE ANY OF THOSE
REVIEWS OR REPORTS GENERATED SO
I ENDED UP DOING MOST OF THE
REVIEWS MYSELF DOES NOT MEAN
THAT I AM PUTTING THE PRESSURE
ON THE COMMISSIONERS BUT THAT'S
OK.
IT'S IT'S IT'S IT'S A MATTER
OF TO DO IT AND DO IT REALLY IN
TIME FASHION.
SO I HOPE THAT IN THE FUTURE
THIS SHORTCOMINGS FROM US TO BE
FIXED.
THE OTHER THING IS I'M WORKING
WITH THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
ABOUT RENUMBERING THE
COMPLAINTS BECAUSE NOW WE HAVE
COMPLAINTS THAT ARE COMING TO
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
THEY HAVE NO AND WE HAVE THE
ONES THAT ARE COMING TO US
HAVING NO AND WE ARE JUST
TRYING TO WORK THIS OUT AND
HOPEFULLY WHEN THEY IMPLEMENT
THE NEW SYSTEM, THE NUMBER WILL
BE A LITTLE BIT EASIER AND IT
WILL HAVE UNIFORM.
THE ONLY THING WE HAVE IS THE
NEW SEQUENTIAL IF WE HAVE FIVE
COMPLAINTS OR COMPLAINTS ETC
IT'S GOING TO BE PLACED IN THE
LOG OF THE COMPLAINTS AND
THERE'S ONE SUFFOLKS
DISTINGUISH BETWEEN WHETHER OR
NOT THE COMPLAINT CAME TO BE OR
CAME TO US.
THAT'S THE ONLY THING THAT WILL
BE DIFFERENT BUT EVERYTHING'S
GOING TO BE SEQUENTIAL.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE'LL
BE WORKING ON IN THE COMING FEW
WEEKS WHENEVER THE SYSTEM IS
AVAILABLE AND ALSO WOULD LIKE
TO HAVE ALL THE INVESTIGATIVE
MATERIAL.
I KNOW THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
HAD A CHANGE OF PERSONNEL AND
THEY ARE THE RECEIVING OF THE
SUPPORTIVE MATERIALS FOR US TO
REVIEW ON.
>> IN SPITE OF THAT WE MANAGED
TO PROVIDE REPORTS TO THE ONES
THAT WERE MADE AVAILABLE TO US.
SO I THINK IT'S PROGRESS BUT
STILL THERE ARE SOME SOME
ISSUES THAT WE'LL PROBABLY
DISCUSS IN OUR SMALL GROUP
MEETINGS BECAUSE I THINK TO
DISCUSS IT IN PUBLIC A LITTLE
BIT AND OVER EACH KIND OF THING
WE WOULD LIKE TO TO WORK IT
TOGETHER AND THEN WHATEVER
AGREEMENTS WITH EACH WILL BE
CONVEYED AND COMMUNICATED TO
THE COMMUNITY.
SO THIS IS MY TWO CENTS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
JUST BY WAY OF BACKGROUND FOR
THE NEW COMMISSIONERS, CITIZENS
CAN MAKE A COMPLAINT EITHER
DIRECTLY TO AIRPARK OR TO THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THEN THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT SENDS IT TO
APACS ALL IS TWO DIFFERENT WAYS
THEY CAN COME IN AND SO WE'RE
TRYING TO STREAMLINE AT ONE
TIME, YOU KNOW THERE WAS A PART
NUMBERS ONE TWO
, THREE, FOUR,
FIVE.
THERE'S POLICE NUMBERS ONE,
TWO, THREE, FOUR, FIVE.
SO WHAT WHAT VICE CHAIRMAN IS
TRYING TO DO IS STREAMLINE THE
WHOLE THING SO IT MAKES IT
EASIER FOR THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS AND WE ENCOURAGE THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS IN THEIR
TASK TO MOVE RIGHT ALONG.
>> YES, SIR.
A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS FOR YOU,
COMMISSIONER.
HOW MANY HOW MANY COMMISSIONERS
ARE OUR INFORMATION ON YOUR
COMMITTEE?
WE HAVE ONE TO THREE, FOUR,
FIVE.
>> OK, THAT'S AND WE'RE LIMITED
WE'RE LIMITED BY THE WAY, NONE
OF US NONE OF THE REST OF US
HAVE ANY ANY MEMBERS ON OUR
COMMITTEES.
YOU'VE GOT THE NO, BUT THAT'S
GREAT.
I MEAN I THINK THAT'S THAT
SOUNDS IMPORTANT OBVIOUSLY THAT
YOU DO HAVE THAT MANY.
BUT THE OTHER THE OTHER
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MENTIONED
TWENTY COMING STRAIGHT BACK IS
THAT HAVE YOU SEEN AN INCREASE
IN THAT BECAUSE I THINK AT
FIRST FOLKS DIDN'T REALLY KNOW
IT WAS A SLOW TRICKLE AND MAYBE
THE WORD'S GETTING OUT THAT YOU
FEEL THAT TRUMAN I THINK IT'S
TRUE.
I THINK NOW WE ARE RECEIVING
MORE.
IS IT BECAUSE OF THE VISIBILITY
IS BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE AWARE
OF OUR EXISTENCE OR MISS
CUMMINGS IS DOING A GOOD JOB BY
YOU KNOW, RECEIVING ALL THOSE
FROM THE PUBLIC.
SO YES, THERE IS THERE IS A I
WOULD SAY AT LEAST 50 PERCENT
INCREASE IN THE NUMBER
OF THINGS THAT WE'RE DIRECTLY
COMING TO.
THANKS.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
INFORMATION MANAGER?
>> THE ONE THING IS I THINK
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE
COMMISSIONER GREEN THERE IS
BECAUSE YOU'RE A LAWYER THERE
IS A ONE OF THE COMPLAINTS I
REALLY WOULD LIKE YOU TO REVIEW
IT JUST CAME OUT NOT LONG AGO.
I CAN COMMUNICATE THAT TO YOU
AND IT'S LIKE TWENTY OR SO
PAGES OF DOCUMENTATION AND LOTS
OF LEGAL JARGON THAT IS THERE
IN THAT AREA THAT'S PROBABLY
JUST TO GIVE US YOUR READING
OF THAT.
ABSOLUTELY.
I'LL SEND THAT TO YOU.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
BEFORE WE GET TO THE CITY
COUNCIL UPDATE VICE CHAIR OFMAN
AND MYSELF ON PERSONNEL
COMMITTEE WE DO INTERVIEWS IF
WE HAVE A VACANCY, IF THERE'S
ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE TO JOIN
US ON THAT COMMITTEE, PLEASE
LET ME KNOW.
WE'D BE HAPPY TO HAVE MORE
PEOPLE ON THAT COMMITTEE AND WE
ARE ALSO LOOKING TO REVIEW AND
REDO THE QUESTIONS THAT WE ASK
AT THE INTERVIEW FOR FOUR NEW
COMMISSIONERS.
HOPEFULLY WE WON'T HAVE TO BE
LOOKING FOR A NEW COMMISSIONERS
ANY TIME SOON.
BUT WE WE NEED TO UPDATE THOSE
THOSE QUESTIONS.
THE LAST THING HOPEFULLY THAT I
WANT TO SAY IS THAT
COMMISSIONER HAYNES INDICATED
SHE HAD WATCHED ONE OF THE
NACOLE WEBINARS AND IT WAS VERY
INTERESTING.
I THINK EVERYBODY GETS THE
INFORMATION FROM NICOLE WHEN
THEY HAVE THEIR SEMINARS AND
THAT IS THE THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF OVERSIGHT
ORGANIZATIONS AND THEIR PUT ON
THE CALENDAR AS SOON AS WE GET
THE DATE THEY HAVE A NATIONAL
CONFERENCE ONCE A YEAR AND IT
SHOULD BE IN THE FALL AND LAST
YEAR COUNCILPERSON HARRISON AND
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS AND MYSELF
ATTENDED THEY'RE VERY GOOD AND
WE NEED TO ALWAYS TRAIN
OURSELVES AS PART OF OUR DUTIES
TO US TO GET OUR TRAINING IN
THIS AREA SO IS THERE ANY
COUNCIL UPDATE COMMITTEE
COUNCILPERSON I CAN MAKE ONE.
>> OK, SO NOT REALLY MUCH TO
UPDATE BUT I CAN SHARE A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT A COUPLE OF MEETINGS
THAT I'VE HAD NOT TO THE CHIEF
ON THE SPOT BUT HE'S REALLY
GOOD AT RESPONDING SO WELL.
SO BACK IN DECEMBER I MET WITH
CHIEF ANDERSON AND WE WERE SO
ATTORNEY GENACHOWSKI AND THE
PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WAS TO
DISCUSS THE DRIVE AND EQUALITY
ORDINANCE AND BASICALLY YOU
KNOW, I'D LET THEM KNOW THAT I
WOULD BE HAVING PUBLIC WOULD BE
DISCUSSING THE DRIVE EQUALITY
ORDINANCE SOON PUBLICLY AND YOU
KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
CHIEF ANDERSON SHARED WAS THAT
HE WAS SO THERE'S TWO THINGS
BECAUSE I MET WITH HIM
YESTERDAY BUT I ALSO MET WITH
HIM IN DECEMBER AND DECEMBER HE
SHARED THAT IS WORKING ON
CREATING A CULTURE WHERE THEY
ARE CONFRONTING THINGS AND
HAVING DIFFICULT CONVERSATIONS
AND SO WHAT I WOULD LIKE IS FOR
THE CHIEF TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THAT.
WELL, THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER,
BUT I'M NOT USED TO SEEING IT.
COUNCIL MEMBER YOU KNOW, I
THINK THAT CREATING A CULTURE
OF JUST BEING KIND OF HAVING
ACCOUNTABILITY AND BEING DIRECT
IS PERHAPS MAYBE SOMETHING THAT
IS JUST PART OF MY STYLE.
NOW I'M GOING TO SAY SOMETHING
LIKE, YOU KNOW, I'M FROM
PHILADELPHIA.
SHOULD I SAY ANY MORE?
AND I GO SEE I KNOW I HAD TO
THROW THAT OUT THERE PRETTY
HAPPY RIGHT NOW I AM.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACTUALLY I
PROVIDED SOME TRAINING AS PART
OF OUR PROMOTIONAL PROCESS FOR
FIRST HAVING EMPLOYEES THAT ARE
STEPPING IN THE LEADERSHIP TO
START TALKING ABOUT CULTURE.
SO THAT'S PART OF THE PROCESS
WE'VE HAD ONE THAT WE'VE
ENTERTAINED HERE RECENTLY THAT
I HAVE TO PUT OUT TO OUR
EMPLOYEES FROM EMPLOYEES THAT
ARE INSIDE THE DEPARTMENT THAT
SPECIFICALLY TALK ABOUT CULTURE
SPECIFIC, SPECIFICALLY TALKED
ABOUT ACCOUNTABILITY AND TO
READ INFORMATION ABOUT
ACCOUNTABILITY AND ALSO WE TALK
ABOUT THE DRIVE EQUALITY
ORDINANCE.
IT'S SO LEADERS NOW HAVE TO
SPEAK SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THEIR
CULTURAL COMPETENCY, THE
ABILITY TO HAVE THESE REAL
CONVERSATIONS WITH OUR
EMPLOYEES.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I STARTED
SOME TIME AGO.
WE TALK ABOUT RACE.
WE TALK ABOUT THE HISTORICAL
IMPACT OF SOME OF THE DECISIONS
THAT THE POLICE DEPARTMENTS
NATIONALLY HAVE HAD ON PEOPLE
OF COLOR.
WE ALSO SPEAK ABOUT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT WE'VE SEEN
HISTORICALLY WHERE POLICE
OFFICERS HAVE HAD A POSITIVE
IMPACT ON PEOPLE OF COLOR.
THERE IS A BALANCE WE DO HAVE
GREAT POLICE OFFICERS THAT HAVE
DONE GREAT THINGS HERE
RECENTLY.
WHAT WE'VE DONE IS WE'VE CARVED
OUT A RELATIONSHIP WHERE WE'RE
IDENTIFYING EMPLOYEES THAT NEED
HELP.
WE TALK TO THEM ABOUT THE
THINGS THAT THEY FEEL ARE
IMPORTANT ABOUT POLICING,
PROTECTING LIFE, ADDRESSING
CRIME, YOU KNOW, RESPON NEED TO
THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT TELL
THEM THAT THERE'S CONCERNS IN
THEIR COMMUNITY.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME WE ALSO
ARE HAVING CONVERSATION WITH
THOSE EMPLOYEES ABOUT THE HARM
WITH RESPECT TO SOME OF THE
THINGS THEY'RE DOING.
AN EXAMPLE IS, YOU KNOW, IF YOU
STOP 20 PEOPLE AND YOU FIND ONE
PERSON THAT PERHAPS HAS A CRIME
,YOU HAVE DONE SOMETHING TO
ADDRESS THE CRIME FOR THAT ONE
PERSON, THEN OBVIOUSLY IT'S OUR
JOB TO ADDRESS CRIME.
BUT YOU HAVE 19 OTHER PEOPLE
THAT ARE STOPPED WHICH OVER
TIME HAS A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND SO
GETTING OUR POLICE OFFICERS TO
BE MORE SPECIFIC, IDENTIFY
ISSUES AT THE CORE OF WHAT
THEY'RE ADDRESSING AND BEING
MORE COURTEOUS, RESPECTFUL IN
THEIR ENCOUNTERS IS WHERE WE'RE
CONFRONTING ISSUES AND COUNCIL
MEMBER STARS AT THE TOP WAS
SPEAKING TO MY LEADERS, MY
DEPUTY CHIEFS, MY COMMANDERS,
MY LIEUTENANTS THEY ALL WERE IN
MEETINGS WHERE CONSISTENTLY
TALKING ABOUT THE IMPACT
OF RACE AND WHAT IT DOES TO
DETER RELATIONSHIPS IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
AND I CAN TELL YOU THAT
INITIALLY IT WAS TOUGH.
IT WAS TOUGH TOUGH BECAUSE THE
EMPLOYEES DON'T KNOW ME TOUGH
BECAUSE IT'S JUST A TOUGH
CONVERSATION.
BUT I AM FIGHTING DENHA AS THE
EMPLOYEES FEEL MORE COMFORTABLE
THEY'RE ACTUALLY STARTING TO
MAKE ADJUSTMENTS, SOME OF IT
BECAUSE PEOPLE DON'T HAVE
FREQUENCY OF INTERACTION WITH
PEOPLE OF COLOR.
THEY JUST HAVEN'T BEEN AROUND
THEM.
THEY DON'T HAVE AN ANGST
AGAINST THEM.
THEY JUST DON'T KNOW.
THE ONLY CONTACT THAT SOME
PEOPLE HAVE HAD IS WHEN THEY'VE
BEEN WHEN THEY'RE STOPPING A
PERSON OR PERHAPS THEY'RE
ARRESTING A PERSON MAY NOT HAVE
EVEN GONE TO SCHOOL WITH PEOPLE
OF COLOR AND SO GETTING OUR
POLICE OFFICERS TO ENGAGE IN
THOSE CONVERSATIONS
ARE NOW
HOPEFULLY GETTING A MORE OUT IN
THE COMMUNITY.
I THINK IT'S CARVING A BIG
CHANGE AS FAR AS OUR DRIVE IN
EQUALITY STATISTICS WE'VE HAD
SOME CHALLENGES PRIMARILY NOT
NECESSARILY FOR THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT BUT BECAUSE WE
HAVEN'T REALLY HONESTLY HAD A
DATABASE SYSTEM THAT ALLOWS FOR
US TO PROPERLY TRACK THE
INFORMATION.
BUT WE HAVE A RECORDS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
WE'RE LOOKING AT WAYS IN ORDER
TO PROVIDE RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM THAT CAN PROVIDE THAT
DATA.
WE'RE WORKING WITH WITH THE
WITH THE RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM THAT WAS STARTED IN
NINETEEN SIXTY AND IT'S BEEN
AROUND FOR SOME TIME BUT QUITE
FRANKLY WE NEED TO GET
SOMETHING BETTER.
WE'RE WORKING ON THAT BUT WE
HAVE SOME EXPERTS IN OUR
DEPARTMENT THAT CAN GLEAN SO
THE INFORMATION AND AS WE MET
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
YESTERDAY, YOU KNOW I GAVE ONE
OF MY DEPUTY CHIEFS AN
ASSIGNMENT WITH RESPECT TO
THINGS THAT HE NEEDED TO DO TO
GET THE INFORMATION OUR COUNCIL
MEMBER NEEDS TODAY I SAW PART
OF IT I GAVE MY DEPUTY CHIEF
PROBABLY I THINK A THREE TO
FOUR WEEK WINDOW SO THEY WOULD
HAVE TIME TO DO IT.
THE DEPUTY CHIEF TOLD ME HE
WOULD HAVE IT DONE IN ONE WEEK.
THAT IS A REAL CHANGE IN THE
CULTURE OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
THE DEPUTY CHIEF IS COMMITTED
TO MAKING SURE AND I'LL SAY IT
WHO IT HIS DEPUTY CHIEF
HORSBURGH COMMITTED TO MAKING
SURE THAT HE'S MOVING ITEMS
FORWARD AND THAT'S BECAUSE THE
CHANGE IN CULTURE AND BEING
ABLE TO TALK SPECIFICALLY TO
HIM ABOUT WHERE WE NEED TO GO.
SO WE HOPE I HAVEN'T SEEN ALL
THE DATA BUT I SAW A LOT OF IT
TODAY.
WE HOPE THAT THAT DATA IS IS
TRENDING IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
BUT I BELIEVE IT IS.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE'RE AT.
>> SORRY, I KNOW IT WAS A LONG
NO, I THINK THAT WAS GREAT.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
AND I ALSO WANT TO SAY THANK
YOU TO DEPUTY CHIEF BORIS FOR
YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE YOU SAID,
YOU GAVE THEM A FEW WEEKS AND
HE SAID HE WOULD HAVE IT DONE
IN A WEEK.
SO I APPRECIATE HIS ENTHUSIASM
FOR GETTING THAT INFORMATION TO
YOU SO THAT IT CAN COME TO ME
AND AS FOR HIS WILLINGNESS TO
BE EXPEDIENT ON GETTING IT DONE
SO IF YOU COULD LET HIM KNOW
THAT I I APPRECIATE THAT WITH A
LOT I WILL.
>> AND IF I COULD JUST SAY THIS
ABOUT WHAT WE'RE DOING WITH THE
DRIVING EQUALITY IN THIS, I
BELIEVE THE ENTIRE ORGANIZATION
IS IT WAS ROCKY IN THE
BEGINNING THERE IS SOME
CONCERNS.
THERE WERE SOME CONCERNS WITH
RESPECT TO WHAT IT DOES TO
POLICING IN WHAT IT TAKES AWAY
FROM OUR ABILITY TO PERFORM OUR
ROLE IN THAT'S NORMAL IN
POLICING.
IT'S NOT JUST IN ANN ARBOR
ISSUE THAT THAT IS NORMAL FOR
POLICE OFFICERS.
BUT NOW I'M SEEING A LOT
OF POLICE OFFICERS
UNDERSTANDING THE DIRECTION WE
NEED TO GO AND A LOT OF IT HAS
TO DO WITH THE FACT THAT YOU
BROUGHT THIS TO OUR ATTENTION
AND YOU WILL AND I APPRECIATE
THAT BECAUSE COMING IN AS A NEW
CHIEF IT MAKES MY JOB A LOT
EASIER FROM A PERSONAL
PERSPECTIVE.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR A MINUTE BEFORE
YOU GO, YOU DON'T TURN A LOT UP
AND BACK.
YOU'VE GOT YOUR YOUR STEPSON
TODAY.
I'VE SAID THIS BEFORE I THINK
BUT I JUST WANT TO SAY AGAIN
HOW IMPRESSED I AND HOW
THANKFUL I AM OF YOUR
WILLINGNESS TO JUST
EXTEMPORANEOUSLY, YOU KNOW,
DISCUSS THESE ISSUES AS THEY
COME UP HERE IN A PUBLIC FORUM
.
SO I THINK IT'S IT MEANS A LOT
AND IT SAYS A LOT AND I FOR ONE
APPRECIATE IT SO THANKS.
I APPRECIATE YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANK GOT A COMMENT.
OK, COMMISSIONER I JUST WANT TO
SAY I REALLY, REALLY UNDERSTAND
ABOUT CHIEF ANDERSON IS A VERY
BUSY PERSON BUT I REALLY,
REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR PRESENCE
AT THIS MEETING AT THESE
MEETINGS IT MAKES THAT
DIFFERENCE IN THE TONE AND THE
INFORMATIONAL LEVEL AS WELL.
SIR, THANK YOU SO MUCH AGAIN.
I APPRECIATE IT.
I APPRECIATE HAVING AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SEE YOU AT THE
CHURCH TO SO THANK YOU DID A
PRETTY GOOD SERVICE.
THANK THANK YOU CHIEF.
>> AND WE HAVE THE APPRECIATION
OF THE COMMISSION FOR ALL THAT
YOU'RE DOING WITH US, ALL THE
COOPERATION WE'VE RECEIVED FROM
YOU OVER THE LAST YEAR AND WHAT
WE EXPECT WE WILL CONTINUE TO
HAVE A GOOD RELATIONSHIP WITH
YOU IN THE DEPARTMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE FOR AND
THAT'S PART OF OUR MISSION.
>> OK, I THINK LET ME SEE DO WE
HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS I'M
SORRY IS IT THAT'S IT.
>> THAT WAS ALL.
THANK YOU.
I FOR NEXT TIME BUT THAT WAS
GOOD.
>> OK ANY COMMUNICATIONS
.
>> OK THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT IS THERE ANYTHING
ELSE FOR THE GOOD OF THE ORDER
AS I USED TO SAY NO IF NOT I'LL
ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO ADJOURN
SLUFF SECONDS ALL IN FAVOR ANY
OPPOSED THE MEETING IS
ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH.
HELP YOURSELF